[music]
There are lots of crossurrens. This
isn't just about software. This isn't
just about AI.
>> Everybody says there's insatiable demand
for AI. I'm not sure we're quite seeing
that yet.
>> There is a lot of companies that are
going to benefit significantly [music]
from the AI build.
>> It does feel though that we're starting
to approach maybe the end of that
sell-off.
>> This is such a generational
transformation. We're going to live in
this bumpy ride. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts [music] right now.
Coming into Monday, with a big week on
deck, economists anticipating payrolls
Wednesday ahead of CPI Friday as Takahi
is winning big in Japan and unleashing a
rally in Japanese equities. China
[music] is fueling some selling in
treasuries, urging banks to curb US
exposure, citing concerns over
concentration risk.
>> Look, this fits a really nice narrative
of sell America and what happens if
China liquidates its entire treasury
[music] holding holdings. It doesn't
really do much for me on the market
side. Maybe yes, you are going to see a
couple of basis points [music] higher on
long-term yields. But the reality is
China has a combined 683 [music] billion
of US treasury, 70 7% of foreign
holdings, and just 2% of total
securities outstanding. Half of that
comes in the banks and didn't US
regulators warn US banks about
concentration in long-term treasuries
right after the Silicon Valley uh
collapse. So a real question here about
what's fact in [music] market terms and
what's potentially narrative. It's
trimming was what it feels like rather
than dumping and some diversification.
[music]
What is really going to matter this week
of course given the fact that we had the
longest government shutdown in history
is we're going to get clean data finally
and it's a double whammy. We're going to
[music] get payrolls on Wednesday and
then CPI on Friday. And what does this
all mean for the Federal Reserve as they
deal with two dual risks?
>> You want some optimism? Tosslock over at
Apollo. Check this out. Software will
not become a macro problem because the
underlying economy is [music] about to
take off. He goes on to say, "Later this
year, the conversation and markets will
change from talking about Fed cuts to
instead talking about the Fed having to
hike." [music]
>> You know, there were some interesting
comments about that particular note
yesterday out on social media saying, "I
want to take whatever he's taking." But
at the same time, that is partly because
nobody is expecting [music] this to be
part of the discussion in part because
of the Kevin Walsh Federal Reserve. If
he is Fed chair, how likely is it he's
going to be talking about some sort of
rate hike [music] in the face of
pressure from President Trump? At the
same time, should some of the
projections come to pass with both the
fiscal, the monetary boost, as well as
the like 4,000 trillion uh dollars of
capex, [music] we could see some uh some
incredible growth.
>> Well, you led me there in fiscal. It is
a midterm election year, which is
[music] why a lot of people think
there's going to be more of a fiscal
push in Washington. We should note there
is potential for DHS to [music] shut
down on Friday and that means Coast
Guard, that means what's going on at the
airport when you have your airport
workers. That is [music] something to
keep in mind. But it is an election
year, which means this administration
wants to run it hot on [music] monetary
policy and on fiscal policy.
>> Japan might be running it hot too.
Speaking of fiscal pushes, check out
Japan. [music] Japanese equities up
overnight by 3.9%.
a major election win over the weekend
for Takichi.
>> It was the biggest post-war [music]
uh really win for any single party uh
going forward. She has more than a
twothirds majority. [music] This is
absolutely a clear mandate. Now the
question is what does she want to do
with it? [music] And this is
increasingly going to be the focus.
Jordan Rochester said pointed to the
fact that she held this election to try
to get a mandate for her responsible
[music] and proactive fiscal policy.
What is it? We aren't sure. What does it
actually look like in practice? Great
[music] note from Jordan a little bit
earlier this morning. Framing really
matters here. Fifth biggest economy on
the planet pushing for stimulus boosting
stocks or fifth biggest [music] economy
on the planet pushing for stimulus and
being rejected by the bond market. Which
one is it?
>> Yeah, you know, I'm not sure. And right
now the market's not sure either. And
that's the reason why you're not seeing
a bigger [music] sell-off in JGBs. It's
a reason why the yen is actually
strengthening. Right now, there is a
real question about how much she can be
successful in strengthening an economy
that has been behind some of its
potential for many years.
>> Lots to talk about this morning
following a ton of volatility in the
last week. Equity futures on the S&P
down by [music] a quarter of 1%. Coming
up this hour, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth with stocks looking for some
stability. Amy Gar of Morgan Stanley as
gold swings back above 5K and Damon
Peterson of the Conference Board looking
ahead to a key week of economic data. We
begin this hour with stocks pulling back
following the biggest one-day rally
since May. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth writing, "For now we see recent
market volatility as a positioning and
valuation recalibration, not a growth
scare." Cameron joins us now for more.
Cameron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It did not feel like a positioning
recalibration through much of last week.
All that volatility and we were down
just 0.1%
on the S&P. What was last week? Well, at
the beginning of every bout of market
volatility, we always ask ourselves, did
anything happen that would cause EPS or
GDP estimates to get revised lower? If
the answer is no, it shortens shallow.
If the answer is yes, it's typically
deeper and more protracted. And so, as
we looked at the outlook over the course
of last week, we thought that the answer
to that growth question was no. And the
way that we got to that is looking at
something like high yield spreads not
blowing out. High yield spreads are at
348 basis points. This is not a bond
market that is freaking out about
growth. You also look at market
leadership. You've had really strong
leadership out of industrials, energy,
materials, financials, all areas of the
market that would not be rallying if we
were really concerned about growth. So
the net of everything is that it seems
to be more about positioning, valuation,
and sentiment recalibration, not a
deeper growth scare.
>> Let's stay on valuation. Could it have a
damping effect on valuations through the
year ahead? Yeah, I think that that is
probably the biggest risk. If we all sit
back and think about all the
justifications as to why the US equity
market should trade at 22 times forward
or 38 times on the cape ratio, the
argument went that because the
components of the S&P 500 are that much
more quality than they used to be
because of the higher waiting in tech,
you have things like higher free cash
flow margins, higher return on invested
capital. But if we're starting to ding
the outlook for free cash flow margins
for the big hyperscalers, lower
potentially return on invested capital
for the software names given AI
uncertainty, it raises the question of
is that justification for ever higher
valuations something that we should push
back on? Well, and this is a reason why,
and we'll get to the fundamentals in
just a minute. People are saying it
feels more than just a violent shift in
positioning that can really revert back.
There has been a change in the way
people view tech companies, how cash
rich they are, how much they can keep
giving dividends, and how much they can
keep doing share bad buybacks, which
have been a huge tailwind to this stock
market. At what point do you see the
technicals really turning against the US
equity market?
>> Yeah, I think it's first important to
note that at the peak of the growth
trade back in November of last year, you
had max positioning in mega cap growth
and max underweight positioning in
cyclical. So there has been a big huge
positioning recalibration. I think your
questions are really important because
the whole notion is that these are very
uh capital-like businesses that don't
need a lot of incremental investment.
And if you look at that over the past
what you saw is that all of these
companies were able to grow earnings by
double digits without having to spend
any money. That was incredible. But now
they're growing earnings by double
digits, but they're having to spend
hundreds of billions of dollars to do
so.
>> Well, this raises the issue of the
fundamentals, right? And we've seen this
broadening out trade and you think that
it might might have legs. We see the
equal weight reaching all-time highs
even amid the carnage that we're seeing
in the Saskopalypse. I think I said that
correctly. Going forward, how much is
that broadening out and frankly the
entire index going higher crimped by the
story that's taking place with a
fundamental shift in the way that tech
companies are being valued and frankly
are uh performing and existing in this
world? Yeah, I think it's such a
fascinating point because if you think
about the driver of all of this growth
within tech spending, which is all now
also leading into growth within value
sectors, how much of this is dependent
on some of these software names
continuing to make investments that
would be demand of AI. So I think some
of this is all just a circular
reference. If we start questioning the
capex growth going forward, does that
also question some of these value
rallies that we have seen lead the
market since November? You also talk
about how these software companies are
the ones that are going to be the ones
to lead when it comes to AI and are
they're the ones that have the most to
gain. So would this be a moment to step
in and get some of those stocks after
the apocalypse?
>> Potentially the most to gain. They have
the most to lose, but I think if applied
properly, they actually have a lot to
gain given the fact that they typically
have high headcount. They typically have
very strong customer relationships, but
if they don't move quickly on AI, then
they have a lot to lose. I think it's
important with the software names to
take a step back and think about the
technicals because they are very very
oversold. If you look at them on a
daily, they're oversold. On a weekly,
they're oversold. If you look at them,
they're now trading at the 200E moving
average. That was support back in 2025,
back in 2022. So that would suggest that
you have some kind of bounce. I think
the big question is can software regain
its leadership coming out of this
bounce. I think that's a lot more in
question just simply because there's all
these doubts of things that effectively
software companies can't disprove at
this point because it's AI risks that
could be out one, two, three, four years
in the future.
>> Look at where the leadership's coming
from right now. Regional bank stocks up
every single day through last week on
the week up by 7%. And it wasn't just
the smaller names. Bank of America City,
JP Morgan up somewhere between 5 to 6%
through last week. What do you think
that speaks to?
>> Deregulation. I think it speaks to this
question if banks would be allowed to
grow their balance sheets further, if
they're allowed to take on more
leverage. I think it's fascinating that
for the banks, they have been growing
earnings over the course of the last 2
years at a faster pace than even prior
to the great financial crisis, which
just suggests that that banks have been
in an extraordinary period of operating
leverage as they cut costs and still see
really strong topline growth. But it
also I think is a reflection of this
cyclical optimism because just as you
saw the regional banks rallying hard,
you also saw things like transportation
stocks rallying hard. If you look at
everything within the transportation
side of things, you're seeing better
shipping rates. You're seeing better
rejection rates coming out of the
truckers. You're seeing demand start to
really cause a capacity tightening,
which all suggests that there's cyclical
underpinning of a little bit of a of a
fire being lit in that part of the
market. The question of course is can it
continue? Well, let's talk more about
that at the index level. This is
something Jim Reed of Deutsche Bank has
raised. Many other people are pondering
the same question at the moment. Can you
have the kind of vicious rotation we're
having over a prolonged period without
index level stress?
>> If you think of times like 2022 or going
back to 2000 to 2002, the answer would
be no. If the largest weights in the
market are continuing to come under
significant pressure and really leading
the market lower, then it's really hard
for names that are a much smaller
portion of the market to drag the
overall index higher. So, you could be
in an environment where index level
returns are kind of shoulder shrugging
and hoham, but you have very strong
returns in pockets of the market that
are much smaller. I think it's an
important point as well that you're
effectively moving liquidity out of very
deep liquid parts of the market in tech
and into much shallower smaller parts of
the market in these cyclicals which can
help explain some of the magnitude of
these upside moves.
>> It was the story of the week. Will it be
the story of the year? Cameron Dawson of
New Wealth is going to be sticking with
us. Cameron gave a nod to this. It's
from JP Morgan's Mark Murphy. It's
difficult to prove a negative that AI
won't disrupt software in a few years
which puts a cloud over some of those
names maybe for the time being
>> which raises this issue of even as we
get earnings from a number of these SAS
companies these software companies how
much will that matter if they come out
with blowout earnings you know we have
people pointing to the fact that
actually people's expectations for
earnings have been increasing over time
it doesn't matter because you cannot
prove that they won't be rendered
obsolete in 3 minutes from anthropic
that then puts out an ad complaining
about why they're useless
>> and we're getting this for the next
several months from Anthropic. This is
the IPO road show it started. This is it
and you're going to see it from other
names in the mix as well.
>> And I have to say that their advertising
was pretty much on fire. So clearly they
are gaining steam on the social side of
things with some pretty significant
burns. But at the same time, you know,
this is the real question. What's the
overhang for some of these business
models?
>> There is a massive marketing effort
underway and it's disrupting this equity
market in a big way too. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yara.
>> Good morning John. In Japan, Prime
Minister Sai Takahichi secured a
historic election win. Her Liberal
Democratic Party winning a twoth3
supermajority in the lower house, which
positions her as the nation's strongest
leader in decades. In remarks, [music]
Takahuchi vowed to build trust with
financial markets amid concerns over how
she'll pay for a [music] planned tax
cut. Meanwhile, here, Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson suggesting the Senate
should begin its hearings [music] on
Kevin Worsh's Fed chair nomination. This
despite GOP push back to block the
nomination until the criminal
investigation against current Fed
[music] chair Jay Powell is resolved.
Besson's pushing to get the hearings
underway and quote, "See where the
investigation [music]
goes."
And in sports, the Seattle Seahawks are
Super Bowl champions after a dominant
performance over the New England
Patriots. Seattle held New England
scoreless until the fourth quarter,
finishing the game with six sacks, two
[music] interceptions, and a fumble
recovery. Running back Kenneth Walker
was named MVP after rushing for 135
yards. It's the second title in Seattle
[music] franchise history. That's Blue
Rick Reef. John, thank you. I'm not even
going to pretend. Forgive me. It's
[music] so I'm an American, but I go to
bed so early. I didn't watch a single
minute of this.
>> As an American, I can tell you that you
probably [music] didn't miss that much.
Certainly, the game itself was
incredibly boring. And I can tell you
the Norwegian uh cross country skier,
the American the figure skater. I'm
telling you, the Olympics has some
incredible.
>> I'm so dedicated to the craft that I
wake up [music] to watch the Japanese
clothes. You know, that's what I'm in
the business at doing.
>> Well, I don't think that you missed much
last night, so congratulations. [music]
>> Saw plenty in Japan. Up next on the
program, a test for treasuries.
>> Thus far, the market has been very
resilient. Uh we've had some of our best
auctions in a long time this year. We're
seeing very good foreign demand.
>> Up next on the program, Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> stacked with economic data this week.
Check out the calendar. Tomorrow we get
retail sales. Wednesday payrolls.
Thursday claims. Friday CPI. CPI on
Friday. That's how things are shaping
up. These are the scores going into all
of that. Equity futures on the S&P 500
pulling back by just a quarter of 1%. A
volatile week last week. If you ask
[music] someone to guess what the index
did, down 0.1% probably wouldn't have
been the answer halfway through [music]
last week. Just amazing to see. On the
NASDAQ, down about 0.5% on the Russell
down 0.3. Check out Japan. The EK225
closing at an all-time high. We rallied
[music] by 3.9%
in the Japanese session. On dollar yen
down to 15657.
Yields just about unchanged at the long
end of [music] the curve. Takayichi
getting a little bit of an endorsement
from the market after a big election win
over the weekend.
>> It seems like people are excited to see
what she has to say and don't think that
she'll be so extreme as to allow wild
depreciation of the Japanese yen or
frankly a Bank of [music] Japan that
does not hike rates in order to allow uh
the economy to really gain steam. just
to [music] highlight how big of a
majority she got. She got 316 of the
chambers, 465 seats. This for the
Liberal Democratic Party. This is an
absolutely astounding win. That is the
biggest going back [music] to the 1940s.
>> Jane Foley was speaking earlier talking
about that she knows she has the bond
market on her shoulders. And the fact of
the matter is the election's over. She
doesn't need to outdove the opposition,
which were actually going [music] to run
an even looser fiscal policy than she
wanted to. So that's why potentially the
market is also taking her in strike.
>> Betty yen strength this morning. The
dollar again down to 15659 [music]
and the Savanas this morning a test for
treasuries.
>> We need to get back to something with a
three in front [music] of it in terms of
deficit to GDP. That's why at FSOC we
are focused on growth as desirable but
also a lack of growth as a financial
stability risk. Thus far the market has
been very resilient. Uh we've had some
of our best auctions in a long time this
year. We're seeing very good foreign
demand.
>> So here's the latest this morning. China
pushing back on US debt. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that Chinese
regulators are urging Chinese banks to
pull back holdings of US treasuries,
citing concentration risk and
volatility. With the latest, here's
Bloomberg's Tali Hendle. Morning Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. Well, people
familiar with the matter tell Bloomberg
News that the guidance reflects a
growing weariness among Chinese
officials that large holdings of US
government debt could expose banks to
sharp swings. Now, importantly, this
does not extend to Chinese state
holdings of US treasuries, but comes
amid what has been growing concerns from
global investors about fiscal discipline
here in Washington. The backdrop of
course being what's been unpredictable
policym, the president's recent perhaps
more relaxed comments on weak dollar
policy and of course questions about the
Fed's independence as we wait for Kevin
Worsh to be confirmed. Plus, as you've
already mentioned on the program, we've
been watching closely, the Japan Prime
Minister Takahuchi's election victory.
She was endorsed by President Trump and
her coalition's now mandate and sweep in
these elections will likely mean a
bolstering in defense spending to combat
China. Now, it's probably worth
mentioning that USChina relations have
actually been relatively stable
recently. In fact, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant went as far in
an interview yesterday to applaud China
for holding up their end of the US China
trade truce that was struck late last
year. Still, I will point out that our
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say that
this really does fit a longerterm
strategic trae trajectory for Beijing,
which has been limiting its exposure to
US dollar assets over the last decade.
Now, John, worth mentioning, President
Trump did have a phone call just last
week with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Our reporting indicates that this
guidance to Chinese banks came before
that discussion between the two leaders
happened.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. I think
also worth mentioning that 10-year bond
yields are only up by two or three basis
points off the back of this story higher
to 423. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth joins us now for more. Cameron,
let's continue this conversation. The
South America trade, you actually seeing
it in the data because we're seeing it
in the headlines.
>> Yeah, definitely not. If you look at
last year, we saw record numbers of
influence into treasuries as well as
equities. So, we ended 2025 with record
foreign holdings in both treasuries and
equities. you saw $500 billion worth of
treasury increase in the overall
holdings. So sell America was definitely
the narrative last year. It did not play
out in practice. But it is good to
remember that prices are set at the
margin. And there's a great Bloomberg
screen that's debt go and what you can
see is the Treasury holdings of
different countries. And for the last 13
years, China has effectively cut its
Treasury holdings in half. So this is
not a new story. The question is, do you
see less Treasury buying from from
China? You also see less Treasury buying
potentially from Japan because home
yields are higher and potentially less
Treasury buying from Europe. You've seen
a huge increase, a three-fold increase
in Treasury holdings from the UK, for
example. So, could you see that at the
margin start to come down and put
pressure up on long-term yields?
>> Have we already seen that priced in? I
mean, I'm asking this with respect to
how much the Bank of Japan and frankly
Takayichi is putting pressure on US
tenure yields. Yeah, I think you have
potentially seen some of the fiscal
worries get priced in early on within
Japan because you're seeing the response
this morning is not nearly as violent.
The the sell-off in bonds is not nearly
as violent as what we're seeing as the
rise in equities. I do still think that
there's a very little direction within
the 10-year Treasury. It's at 4.2%. All
of its moving averages are just kind of
coalesed in one tight area, which says
that there's really no conviction within
the 10-year Treasury yield. If the
10-year Treasury believed the equity
market and the cyclical rebound, I don't
think that we would be seeing 10 years
at 4.2%. They'd likely be closer to
4.6%.
>> Which is the reason why people are
looking at Kevin Worsh, the new uh
potentially a new incoming Fed chair,
should he get confirmed or even heard.
Uh Secretary Besson had some really
interesting things to say over the
weekend about how it was probably going
to take about a year or more in order to
really start to wind down the the
balance sheet in any significant way.
and he made some other comments at a
time when we're looking at something of
a Fed treasury accord or something like
that. Do you have a sense of what that
could look like?
>> Yeah. Well, we've been we've been joking
that they should rebrand quantitative
easing as quantitative freedom uh in
order to be able to to navigate this
this balance sheet runoff. I think it's
a really big question because we know
that Treasury wants yields to move
lower, not just on the front end in
order to reduce Treasury borrowing
costs, which interest expense is over $1
trillion. It's larger than defense
spending. So, this is something that
they want the front end to come down,
but they also want the backend to come
down. They want to have relief within
the housing market with mortgage rates
coming lower cyclical areas of the
market getting stimulated by lower
long-term yields. It's really hard to do
that in a very progrowth, pro- stimulus
kind of backdrop, which means that it
suggests in order to accomplish 3%
growth and 3% Treasury yields, you need
some kind of Treasury market
intervention. It can't do it alone. So,
what would that look like? And I'm glad
you bring this up because just a few
hours ago, the president actually put on
Truth Social, a Bloomberg story talking
about a Barkclay's note about how this
president wants to see mortgage rates
drop to 5% this year. Can they actually
get to that?
>> Well, some of the things are within
their control. We saw the the mortgage
buying that was that was pushed through
back a couple of months ago. And then
there's of course things that are out of
their control. And the best way to think
about the yield curve is that the
shorter you are in the yield curve, the
more it's controlled by the Fed. As you
move longer and longer out, it's
controlled by supply and demand. The
supply side, of course, is what's going
on within the fiscal side of things. And
the demand side is demand from not just
domestic owners, but foreign owners. And
I think that that's one of the big
questions that everybody's wrestling
with this morning.
>> Final word on Tossen Slug of Apollo. You
saw the quote. I'm sure you read it over
the weekend. Rate hikes at the end of
the year. You think that's a
conversation?
>> Well, if you look at the warp screen,
they actually have a slight probability
of rate hikes starting in 2027. I don't
think that this is something that worsh
will necessarily want to push through.
Um but it is a committee vote and think
of us going forward in just June. If we
have this kind of of strong economy
where we see some reaceleration, are we
in an environment where the chair could
be the only one voting for rate cuts?
What a wild world.
>> Cameron Dawson of New Worth. Cameron,
it's good to see you. Just imagine that
6 months out.
>> Yeah, I'm just trying to imagine the
truth postings or maybe this comes right
after the election. Should there be a
change in leadership, maybe it won't be
a problem to raise rates. But I'm
curious going forward about uh what kind
of push back we get from the president
and frankly to Cameron's point, what
kind of consensus do you get on a
committee that has been really named by
the Fed chair in each consecutive uh
era? And is it going to be the same? Is
it going to be the worst Fed or is it
going to be the Worsh Waller,
etc. [music]
>> I don't think a rate high conversation
is going to go down too well at the
confirmation hearing when we eventually
get a confirmation hearing. Coming up on
the program, Amy Gower of Morgan Stanley
on the swings, the wild swings in
precious metals. Plus, Yahara has your
morning movers. Novo shares surging as
hims and hers abandons a copycat weight
loss pill. We've [music] got Novo up by
close to 7%.
>> [music]
>> Max Kender of HSBC calling it rotational
pain and it was painful for a lot of you
I know over the last week yet still we
closed out last week within 1% of
alltime highs and down on the week just
0.1% on the S&P 500 [music] futures down
another 210 of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ down by 0.4. It was on the NASDAQ
the big tech players where we saw a lot
of that volatility. The NASDAQ having
its worst week of the year so far. But
elsewhere, the equal weight S&P 500,
[music] the Russell 2000 posting a gain
of 2% on the week. And at the moment, we
pull back from those record highs. On a
Russell 2000, we're down by about 2/10
of 1%. Switch to the board and get to
the bond market. There is a tug of war.
How much weight do you put on the ISMs
versus the labor market data of the last
week? [music] Because those two data
points tell a very different story. ISMs
are telling you that things are fine and
they're going to pick up, particularly
ISM manufacturing. [music]
Elsewhere, the labor market data
dreadful. Will that be validated by
payrolls this Wednesday?
>> Yeah, payrolls. And then of course, we
[music] get CPI and it's really good
that you pointed to the ISM because we
have uh someone coming on later, Jill
Carrie Hall of Bank of America, who
thinks the ISM actually leads this
rotational trade that the likes of Max
Kentner is talking about that that is
part of the whole rejuvenation of the US
economy story. At the same time, is this
still the jobless recovery, right?
[music] Can you still have that optimism
if you don't have the hiring to
accompany it?
>> Remember all those headlines? South the
US dollar, dollar debasement, all of
that stuff. And then [music] risk
appetite gets a bit of a punch in the
face. And what happens? The dollar rally
is one of the best weeks we've had this
year. The dollar index the best [music]
week since the first full week of
January. Euro dollar this morning up to
about 11865. But you really do see start
to understand the correlation or lack
thereof between risk appetite and the US
dollar. And when risk appetite unwound,
the bid came back into the US dollar.
[music]
>> Yeah. And arguably, and some people
might say that the strength that you saw
in the US dollar that really stemmed
from Kevin Worsh getting [music] the nod
to be the next Fed chair was part of
what unwound the entire market. There's
an entire theory about how the sort of
sell America trade was so embedded in
conviction trades that that [music]
alone getting sort of questioned really
unraveled a lot of what was out there.
>> The dollar index a little bit softer
this morning. We're down about a third
of 1% [music] as we can't you get down
to the opening about 3 hours away. Let's
get you some morning movers with you.
Hey yra.
>> Hi John. It looks like the drama between
Novo and Hims may finally be over at
least for now. We are seeing Novo shares
rising 6.6% [music]
in the pre-market after Hims and Hers
backed away from its plans to sell a
copycat version of its WGO pill. This
comes after the FDA said it would crack
[music] down on knockoff weight loss
pills. Uh it was a muchneeded reprieve
for Novo which has had a rough week. Uh
him and hers having a rough morning so
far. It is plunging down more than 15%.
[music]
Meanwhile, we move on to Once Upon a
Farm. This is actually a company by
Jennif Jennifer Garner's organic snack
food company. They sell [music] things
like uh fruit pouches for kids and
babies. It had a stellar debut on
Friday, rising nearly 17%, up another 9%
this morning. It's a welcome sign for
the IPO market as analysts say broadly
that we [music] will see a pickup in
listings this year. And we end on the
supermarket chain Kroger. Shares are
rising five and a quarter% on our
reporting that it's set to announce uh
it's it has plans to name a former
Walmart executive as [music] its next
CEO. Our sources say Greg Forin who used
to run Walmart US is set to [music] take
the top job and it would mark the first
time that Kroger appoints an outsider to
run the company. John [music]
>> Yhara, thanks for the update. More from
Yihara a little bit later this hour. On
a raise this morning, Chinese regulators
urging the nation's top banks to scale
back holdings of US government debt.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
move is framed around diversifying
market risk. Elsewhere, Japanese Prime
Minister Sai Takayichi securing a
historic election win, positioning
herself as Japan's strongest leader in
decades. Her ruling Liberal Democratic
Party achieving the largest post-war
victory for a single party in a general
election. And finally, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson turning up the
heat on the Senate.
>> And Senator Tillis has come out and said
he thinks that Kevin Walsh is a very
strong candidate. Uh so I I would say
why don't we get the hearings underway
and see where uh Janine Piro's
investigation goes.
>> The Treasury [snorts] Secretary adding
Kevin Walsh's nomination for Fed chair
should proceed despite a blockade
attempt from his own party.
>> Let's see whether that gains any steam.
He also did really backed away from
saying the Department of Justice was
going to drop the case, which is what a
lot of people are pushing for in order
to get this underway. There does seem to
be an eagerness though to get the new
Fed chair in place. Some people are
wondering if the Department of Justice
inquiry does not get resolved, how long
does this go on and does Chair Powell
become the Fed chair for the remainder
of 2026? Well, Senator Tillis told us
he'll go on and basically for another
300 plus days until he retires. But the
Treasury Secretary clearly wants to get
the show on the road and what he was
pointing to there was a parallel track.
He can't come out and say the DOJ is
going to drop it, especially since the
president just last week said, you know,
we have to investigate C to the end. The
issue is what is going on right now with
the investigation. We really haven't
gotten an update and there are reports
that the Fed hasn't complied with the
probe. So potentially that is going to
be a drag. At the same time, Scott
Besson is just saying at least at the
minimum start the hearings. I'm
>> really reading the tea leaves here. So
forgive me, but I think that was the
first acknowledgement that this might
become a problem down in Washington DC
because the Treasury Secretary is
offering an alternative because there is
an understanding here that this is going
to take some time.
>> That alternative though isn't going to
be taken. So I wonder what kind of back
channels are going to be uh explored in
order to get the Department of Justice
to drop the case. But it's clearly on
his mind and I think that you're right
to say that. Also interesting though he
started to talk about the Kevin Worsh
Fed and what that looks like raising a
question and Krishna Guha raised this
issue. Does he have veto power over
things? How much control will he have
over Fed policy wearing his Treasury
hat? might be comfortable with the
timeline now, but the closer we get to
May and June, I think that conversation
is going to take on some additional
urgency if we haven't addressed things.
Let's turn to the metals market. Some
major moves in the last week in both
gold and in silver. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson also pointing the
finger over the wild swings in precious
metals.
>> The gold move thing things have gotten a
little unruly in in China. They're
having to tighten margin requirements.
So, you know, the gold looks to me kind
of like a classical speculative blowoff.
>> Gold hovering around 5K after a stretch
of historic volatility. Amy G Morgan
Stanley seeing more upside ahead with a
bullcase of 5700 for the second half of
the year. Amy joins us now for more.
Amy, good to see you. Welcome to New
York.
>> Great to be here.
>> Wild wild swings, not just in gold, but
silver, too. And if we can bring up the
silver chart year to date, the silver
chart is one of the most ridiculous
things I've ever seen covering financial
markets. a rally of 60% and then a
complete round trip on what?
>> Yeah, look, I think with silver you do
always expect more volatility. It has
generally lower liquidity. There's
smaller trading volumes going through.
Um I think we could say look the setup
was reasonably supportive in terms of we
we'd eroded a lot of the inventory and
so when somebody needs metal immediately
and that metal is not available, it sort
of goes to the highest bidder and the
price can accelerate very rapidly and
clearly there was an element of momentum
here as well. And then of course when we
had that that turnaround in both gold
and silver with potentially the the
nomination of Walsh coming through and
um and and some of that momentum coming
off you know it's not surprising we
pulled back a long way. I think what
we've been struggling with is what is
the right valuation for silver here and
especially when you see you know a $50
trading range for something that only
started the year at $75. That's quite
difficult to do.
>> The Treasury Secretary was pointing the
finger at China with regards to gold. He
said things were getting a little unruly
in China. Can you translate what does he
mean by that?
>> So I think definitely there's been an
element of momentum and high volumes
going through and we've seen this across
the metals very very high trading
volumes in China and so we've seen some
sort of controls from the exchanges and
position limits trying to to curb things
back into place. Um we might also be
seeing a bit of um positioning taken off
ahead of Luna New Year because things
will generally be slowing down there.
Um, so I think partly that's probably
been been having a hand here, but I
think also unsurprising when you get
sort of a straight line up in metals to
have a bit of consolidation, take a
pause. That's not unusual. So it seemed
like Scott Besset was talking about the
hack. He's currently blaming this one
trader who had an incredible slew of
losses in China and then fled the
country. I mean, it just raises the
question of how financialized some of
these metals markets have gotten. the
idea that suddenly people are turning to
precious metals as an alternative to
things like treasuries which are very
deep liquid market. How comfortable is
the gold market is the silver market
with this moniker of an alternative as
an alternative to be treated as an
alternative to full faith and credit in
the United States government. So I think
I think gold has kind of always had this
role as a safe haven traditionally. So
you have had yes financial flows but
also real physical buying from central
banks from ETFs and and kind of we're
used to this sort of flow in gold. I
think for silver because it's also got
that industrial metal hat probably this
is where it's a little more difficult
because there are real end users who
also need silver. So when people are
suddenly trying to buy quite large
volumes for um financial reasons and
then you still have the the physical
buyers that's where things get a little
a little tense. So gold I would say
should be okay with this. silver.
Obviously, a lot of volatility as we're
seeing.
>> Then you overlay the fundamentals which
is that every country in the world is
trying to build up its strategic
reserves of some metals as well as try
to build out their infrastructure. We
saw heard about the vault uh from
President Trump that he wants to
stockpile certain metals. Do you have a
sense of how much that could really skew
valuations? Is that already priced in?
>> Yeah. So, I think the the stockpiling
theme is is super interesting. So, we
have as you say um project vault
launched in the US which is looking for
any critical minerals. Now the US
critical minerals list is about 60
different metals. Some of these are very
very small markets. Some of these are
much bigger. And so um I think we need
to see what ultimately is going to be
top priority in terms of stockpiling. I
can think you know it's probably you
know it could be any of those metals but
it's the larger ones could be more
easily able to absorb that stockpiling.
You could say for copper actually
already the US has already built quite a
large stockpile. Last year, the US
imported probably 2/3 again what it
would normally need and and most of that
is just sat in the warehouse system. So,
actually, you could say the US may have
an incentive to try and keep that in the
country rather than than letting that be
exported.
>> I was going to ask you about copper,
too, because really this matters with
demand in China. How weak is the demand?
Is soft the demand right now for copper
in China?
>> Yeah, I think it's it's remarkable how
strong copper has been considering what
we're seeing in the Chinese demand. And
this is not a new story. This is
something that started back in
September, October time. Q4 we saw
Chinese apparent consumption down around
12% year-on-year. So that really
weighing on on the sort of total full
year 2025 demand number. We're going
into Luna New Year which is where
activity typically slows down. So often
you see uh the semi-fabricators slowing
down their activity but yet copper has
proved remarkably resilient which I
think tells you there's broader macro
factors at play. There's this theme
around the AI trade, stockpiling,
scarcity, uh, supply chains, and then
also these macro overlays of, you know,
rate cuts still coming through, um,
demand for real assets from investors.
>> Lisa mentioned Project Vault. What about
the fact this administration also has
tariffs on some of these metals?
>> Yeah. So, at the moment, you've got your
steel and aluminium tariffs in place.
And what it looks like, if anything, is
actually uh the US has been importing
less aluminium than it needs at the
moment. Um, so that would imply actually
destocking rather than than stocking.
Um, and copper, we only have tariffs on
things like copper wire, not on on
copper itself. But we are due to hear
whether those might come in for 2027.
>> Think they're going to do it.
>> Um, it's a tricky one to call. I'd say
the US is probably more reliant on
imports of aluminium than copper. So
arguably, if they can do it on
aluminium, they could do it on copper.
Um, the market is not really pricing
that that is going to happen at the
moment. There's very little premium for
US metal at this point. Um but the other
thing they could do is of course just
kick the can down the road and say look
let's see again in 6 months from now and
that is more likely to keep the metal on
shore but without really having too much
impact on domestic US copper prices.
>> Just how tight is the copper market at
the moment?
>> So we we do have a lot of inventory.
We've had this big inventory build in
the US but I would almost disregard that
for now because it's it's sort of locked
in the US. If you think of that as a
strategic reserve then you'd say the
copper market's pretty tight. London
inventory is is low. Chinese inventory,
yes, is building, which we think is is
this demand weakness, but we always get
builds around this time of year. To me,
the big signal for us is going to be as
we come out of Luna New Year, what
happens in China? Does activity pick up
or not? And that's going to really tell
us, you know, is China just pausing
because prices have moved a lot or is
this China actually stepping away from
the market? Normally, they pause, they
kind of get used to the new price levels
and then they come back in.
>> Can we finish on supply? Back in the
day, give a minor a dollar, they'll dig
a hole. Are they still digging holes?
>> Uh, not so much. So, we are now 10 years
on from the 2015 16 uh metals price
downturn, which is where mining
companies largely cut their budgets. And
we're really starting to feel the
effects of that. And that the challenge
is this long lead time. So, we can't
give you like a big list of new mines
that are coming on in the next few
years. And even now where copper prices
are really high, you'd argue probably
most copper projects in the world would
make sense here. We're still seeing
companies trying to buy each other or
buy assets rather than building from
scratch. So really what we're then
hoping for is a bit of scrap, a bit of
brownfield expansion, but nothing major.
>> Amy, appreciate your time. It's good to
see you in person as well. Amy Gam there
of Morgan Stanley. Back in the day, that
was the story. They've become very
disciplined since then. Scarred by the
events of 10 years or so ago.
>> Yeah. And how much prices went down and
how much they've had a difficulty in
actually getting projects through. I
mean, I'm surprised that we got through
that whole conversation without talking
about resolution mines down in the
southwest of the United States. I mean,
they're still kind of looking for those
copper reserves that they know are
there, but they just can't extract out
of the ground.
>> We'll find time to talk about resolution
copper another time. Don't worry, Amy.
We'll make that happen. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahira for more. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. Apollo Global Management has
set a new lending record. The firm
originated $97 billion in the fourth
quarter, pushing the total to 309
billion for the year, but Apollo remains
delayed in returning capital to
investors in its private equity and
hybrid funds, [music] blaming the
dynamic exit environment. Meanwhile,
hedge funds are betting on more pound
weakness as UK Prime Minister Kier
Starmer's future hangs in the balance.
The PM's chief of staff resigned
yesterday amid [music] backlash over his
appointments of Peter Mandelson as
ambassador to the US despite [music]
his ties to Jeffrey Epstein. Starmer is
expected to either try to shore up his
position or potentially be [music]
forced out. And Bad Bunny making history
at the Super Bowl. The Grammyinning
artist becoming the first to perform on
the big stage [music] entirely in
Spanish. The 14-minute set included
guest performances by Lady Gaga and
Ricky Martin. President Trump weighing
in on the performance, calling it one of
the [music] worst ever and criticizing
the dancing. Mr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yahara, thank you. [music] Thanks for
the update. Appreciate it. Up next on
the program, the Fed's tugofwar.
>> The labor market looks weaker, right?
And this whole kind of battle that the
Fed is fighting, this tugofwar between
inflation and and labor, it feels like
the the labor market will win out.
>> Up next on the program, [music] Dennis
Person at the Conference Board, live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Closed out last week with the best day
since May. Closed out last week for a
weekly decline [music] of just 0.1%.
Even as software stocks finished the
week down by about 8%. [music] Equity
futures this morning up by a quarter of
1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by
down by 0.4 on the Russell 2000 negative
by 0.3. We're down to start the week
[music] down across the board and
Sylvanas this morning. The Feds tug of
war.
>> Certainly the last handful of data
points look like a kind of a
reaceleration to the downside. the labor
market looks weaker, right? In this
whole kind of battle that the Fed is
fighting, this tugofwar between
inflation and and labor, it feels like
the the labor market will win out. You
need a lot more data to really determine
a trend.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve awaiting delayed reports
on both employment and inflation. US
payrolls due on Wednesday, followed by
CPI on Friday. Dana Peterson of the
Conference Board writing, "The next 5
days will be a blockbuster week." To
look ahead to that, Dana joins us now
for more. Danny, good morning. Let's
talk about confidence first. The CEOs
that we speak to sound confident. Are
the CEOs you hear from bullish about
hiring because that seems to be the
story in the data at the moment?
>> Not really. They're still waiting on the
sidelines and we're seeing that in the
actual data. Payrolls have been pretty
small. Um, but that's also consistent
with a labor market that's still
healthy, very close to maximum
employment.
>> Is it a supply side factor then if it's
a labor market that's still healthy?
Because at the moment we're looking back
12 months and we could see jobs growth
at zero. Nothing, Dana. That doesn't
sound healthy.
>> Well, it's it's about levels, not the
deltas. Right. So, right, if you look at
the data, uh either the establishment
payrolls or uh the household survey uh
in levels, most people are still
working. Um and those levels have
returned to the path that we had before
the pandemic with a delta. And that
delta is really the advancement of
people retiring. Other than that, most
people are still working if they want
to.
>> Dana, in the conference board's own
survey, a number of respondents, the
greatest number of respondents going
back to 2021 say that jobs are hard to
get. You see an increasing amount of
concern about the availability of work.
And I'm just wondering how much of a
forward-leading indicator this tends to
be in prior readings.
Well, I think this time it's a little
bit different. Yes, it is pointing to
the fact that the unemployment rate
could rise because people, some people
especially in industries like finance
and tech are being let go and it's very
difficult for them to find new jobs. And
so that's accurate. The survey is
saying, yeah, it's tough to get a job
out there if you don't already have one.
But when you look at the jolts data and
even the unemployment rate, most people
most companies are not letting anyone
go. So we're kind of still in this low
higher low fire uh place. And again,
it's about the level the number of
people who are actually working is very
high. That said, Dana, we have seen
jobless claims start to tick up and
there is some concern that this
particular reading that we get on
Wednesday of non-farm payrolls is going
to be really skewed to the downside from
the revisions, the benchmark revisions
that are going to come out. I'm just
wondering what you're looking for to
determine whether you're starting to see
a shift from low, high or low fire
dynamic to something slightly different,
a little bit more pernitious, a little
bit more protracted to the downside.
>> Sure. So, I'll be looking at two things.
Yes, you can look at payrolls in terms
of the change, but again, when you're
close to full employment, you don't need
much change at all. Uh because most
people are working. Um so I would look
at the level of that and certainly with
the unemployment rate, I would dig
beneath the surface and take a look at
who's driving it. Is it people who are
newly let go? Um or or is it people who
are still, you know, looking for jobs?
You have to look at those details to
understand what's going on in the labor
market.
>> And then of course Friday we're going to
get CPI. So as you say blockbuster week
for economic data. What are you focused
on when it comes to the inflation
report?
>> Absolutely. I'm looking at again
underneath the surface first looking at
goods especially those that are most
likely to be imported. Are we still
seeing prices increase um for those
items? And we've seen that in the data
over the last few months. So we the
tariff effect is coming in. However,
it's being offset mightily by uh slowing
shelter costs and that's that's a good
thing. Um so I'll be looking at the
shelter costs to make sure that's still
putting downward pressure on overall
inflation, but I'll also be looking at
any services that are indirectly
affected by tariffs and also things like
health insurance and car insurance which
we know have been rising. When it comes
to um when you said earlier about CEOs,
they're waiting on the sidelines. What
exactly do CEOs want to hear in order
for them to get back in and start hiring
again?
>> Well, I think for a lot of them, any of
them that are exposed in some form or
fashion to supply chains are waiting for
the trade deals to be completed. There's
still some major trade deals that have
not been uh affected. And also, USMCA re
renegotiations start this summer. And if
you are an auto uh company or lumber
company, you're curious to know whether
or not you're going to have to pay
different rates of tariffs, whether a
product is moving from Canada to the US
or or Mexico to the US. And so, I think
they really want to know what that looks
like for them.
>> Dana, it's good to hear from you. Thanks
for breaking things down. Dana Pison
there at the conference board. I think
it's fair to say that Dana poured a bit
of freezing cold water over their own
survey with some of that analysis.
>> This is that this time might be somewhat
different in terms of just how much it
leads to the potential weakening in the
labor market. The fact that a
forward-leading indicator that in the
past might have been somewhat predictive
now is being sort of cast with some
doubt about some from the person who's
actually crafting [laughter] that survey
raises questions about how you get a
clear signal about this labor market. I
mean, this is something that we talk
about a lot, especially at a time that
does feel like an inflection in multiple
levels.
>> I also feel like this was what we heard
at Davos. There's a diversification
where what corporate America feels and
what the everyday consumer feels.
They're amped up. While everyday
consumers are still worried about beef
prices,
>> big range, big range of estimates going
into Wednesday. The median estimate in
our survey is around 70k. The high is
135, the lows -10. And if you ask the
people at either end of the extreme, the
one 35 and the negative 10, both those
individuals, city standard childhood are
concerned about the labor market data.
>> Yeah, I was going to say, show me the
number, but give me the interpretation
because right now people could get a
number and it could be bad even if it's
100,000 new jobs that are created or it
could be good if it's a negative. I
mean, there are some questions here
about whether we're seeing a secular or
or cyclical shift. You've talked about
this many times and ultimately we're
still not getting clarity even as
peripheral data does seem to suggest
that there's some deterioration in the
labor market.
>> We're exhausted after last week even
with the weekend.
>> I mean, no, I'm ready to go. I'm so
excited for this week. I think it's
great.
>> Absolutely nuts the year so far.
>> Ridiculous. In the next hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance, we'll catch up
with Bob Elliot of Unlimited Funds,
Henry Trees of Vader Partners, the
former Fed vice chair, [music]
Richard Clarida, and John Belton of
Gabelli Funds. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance just around the
corner.
[music]
>> We think that there's a potential for
upside to global economic growth.
>> We've been on a gradual slowdown for
months now.
>> The momentum seems to be improving. If
the labor market's turning, it tends
[music] to trend.
>> The real economic story continues.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from [music] New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning. For
our audience worldwide, the second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now. And your scores look like this.
Following a massive week last week,
[music] a week filled with volatility,
four percentage points of outperformance
[music] on the Russell versus the
NASDAQ. That is quite a week. Equity
futures this morning negative by a
quarter of 1%. On the NASDAQ 100, we're
down by 0.5. On the Russell, [music]
we're down by 0.3. The week ahead looks
like this. Tons of economic data,
including payrolls on Wednesday and CPI
this coming Friday.
>> I am excited for this week. We're
[music] going to get data. We're going
to get earnings. We're going to get
stuff that actually is going to give us
a picture of what the fundamental
backdrop looks like. And this is all the
more important after the sassopyps
[music]
of uh 2026 because there is this
ultimate question and you pointed to Jim
Reed's [music] note of Deutsche Bank
where he's saying this is what happened
in 2000. For 6 months the rotation trade
was there and it was creating a [music]
ballast under the carnage that we saw in
the tech sector but then it couldn't
keep up. It couldn't really push back
against the trend. [music] Do we get the
same thing if the US economy doesn't
have the same fervor that people like to
slot think it does? And this Wednesday's
jobs report carries even [music] more
weight because every January it comes
out with these job revisions that go
through March of 2025. So we could get a
[music] downtrend in jobs. So that is
why there's extra weight on this jobs
report and people are incredibly excited
to see what happens from it. And at the
same time we're going to get CPI on
Friday. Good Mary Dailyaly over the
weekend taking to Twitter saying it is
important for Americans that the Fed
[music] make sure that we make sure we
are on top of inflation but at the same
time they're not losing their jobs.
>> I'm just excited to speak to our next
guest. this quote, "Policy
announcements, attacks on Pal, and Fed
share pick make it clear they plan to be
debased AF."
>> He needs to define what all that means
in just a moment.
>> Yeah, say it out loud. Debbased AF.
>> I literally wrote down a question.
[music] Please explain in your words
what debased AF means.
>> We're giving him some time to come up
with an answer now. Coming up on the
program, we catch up with Bob Elliot of
Unlimited Funds as equities seek a
rebound. Henrietta Trees of Vader
Partners as Scott Besson urges the
Senate to open Fed chair hearings. and
Richard Clar, the former Fed vice chair
with the central bank's balance sheet in
focus. We begin this hour with stocks
inching lower at the start of a busy
week filled with economic data. Bob
Elliot of Unlimited Fund seeing the case
for US equities building, writing, "Not
only are earnings growing double digits
against low expectations, but macro
surprises are strong with little
reaction from the equity market." Bob
joined us now for more. Bob, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Time to answer then. Okay, so here's the
quote again. policy announcements,
attack on PAL and Fed chairpick make it
clear they plan to be debased AF. What
do you mean by that?
>> Well, I think there's a real question as
we were coming into the year about
whether the administration would pursue
essentially a pol a set of policies that
would continue the debasement and easy
money easy street policies that they've
uh sort of signaled and now sort of
carried through in uh the first few
weeks of the year. Um, and you know, the
trade-off was whether they're going to
do that or accept lower growth. And it's
pretty clear they're going to do
whatever it takes to juice the economy
and markets. Now, there's always a
question whether they'll succeed, but uh
it's clear that they're going to uh
choose a a debasement path ahead. Um,
and it's a little play on base AF, which
>> of course, of course,
>> uh, which, you know, you can you can
look up what the young kids are saying
these days.
>> We'll let other people do that for us
this morning. That's the move in
precious metals at the start of the
year. What do you think has led to the
rewind of the move in precious metals
since the start of the year?
>> Well, sometimes you get speculative
manas and I think if anything the mania
that you're seeing you saw in gold and
then obviously extreme in silver was
really about how showing how much
liquidity there is out in the market.
And so you saw incredible flows like
flows into silver that were the most
extreme, you know, by 10x that they've
ever been. That doesn't happen in an
environment of tight money or of uh
pairing back risk-taking. That happens
in an environment where there's lots of
liquidity and people are just looking
for the next mania and the next mania.
Now, I think it's easy to sort of bring
silver and gold and hold them together
as the same trade. One is totally
speculative by people who are tourists
in those markets. That's silver. Go. The
gold trade is, you know, got hot for a
minute and then paired back. But if you
look at the underlying fundamentals of
what's going on there, whether it's ETF
flows which remain relatively subdued,
the Chinese Shanghai premium which has
come down a lot, like the underlying
fundamental dynamic in gold, the bullish
dynamic in gold is quite intact. And
that's why what we've seen is pretty
sustained buying pressure over the
course of the last couple of days. And
you know things like today's
announcement that the Chinese banks are
going to get out of US bonds is just
further evidence that you know the hard
money world is going to benefit from the
easy street policies of the US.
>> You're saying two things that are
somewhat contradictory. On one hand
you're saying it's a mania into metals
and the other hand you're saying on the
margins with gold as with other assets
it's what you think is going to dominate
this year which is the get out trade as
foreign investors get out of US assets.
Where do you see evidence truly that the
get out trade is taking place?
>> Well, I I think you see it across a wide
range of different trades. I mean, first
of all, you're seeing foreign assets,
foreign stock markets crush the US over
the course of to start off the year. And
so you see a and driven by fundamental
pressure. So you see today's moves in in
Japan. That's such a good example where
you have a policy environment and a
political environment that's going to be
favorable to Japanese stocks. Why
wouldn't and the world is underweight
Japanese stocks and massively overweight
US stocks and so you're seeing folks
move a lot of the moves initially are
around in in the currency hedging right
the first move that you can do which is
super easy is to just hedge back your
currency positions and move to local
currency because basically everyone in
the world every major allocator in the
world has had an implicit long dollar
position over the course of the last 15
years it's traded well but it hasn't
traded traded well over 10 years 10 15
years, but it hasn't traded well since.
And so that's the first move. Cut back
on your implicit dollar longs and then
scale back in every incremental dollar
going into a domestic meaning like a
European or Japanese market and not in a
US market favors those markets. How much
is this really being driven though by a
concern about being debased AF and how
much is this actually driven by the fact
that this is a bull market and there is
growth in a lot of places and frankly uh
there's a catch-up act being played in
certain emerging markets particularly
with technology I mean how do you
decipher which is which
>> well I think in some cases when you look
at the developed markets and you look
down the look at the breakdown of why
they've been able to outperform it's a
combination of currency and pees
expanding right so expectation s uh are
are being you know are picking up in
those markets. If you look at something
like emerging markets in aggregate and
of course there's a wide range there
that story is actually quite
fundamental. Um and so you see basically
earnings growth describing 100% of the
strength in those equity markets. And so
in many ways earn uh emerging markets
which are long forgotten by the
developed world or major allocator uh
those that looks like the most
attractive place to be and we're
starting to see capital flow into those
positions. Bob, when it comes to the
Fed, does Kevin Worsh make sense if this
administration wants to be debased AF?
>> Well, I think uh uh the the end of uh
Trump's truth social post about him uh
was most telling, not the one about the
fact that he was good-looking, but about
the but the part that he said he can be
relied on
>> clarifying [laughter] that he can be
>> that he can be relied on. And so and
even the sort of talk about the Treasury
Fed coordination that's that um has been
highlighted uh over the last couple of
days. The question is what does that
coordination look like? You know, back
in the 50s it was about independence.
The question now is is it about
independence or it's about coordination
to ensure low rates and cheap Treasury
financing in the future. And so you have
a uh a highly political person. his his
language, his rhetoric has made it very
clear he's favorable to administration
policies and willing to be easy even in
the face of relatively strong conditions
and that's probably what we're going to
see.
>> So, you're not concerned that Kevin War
you don't think he's he's a hawk?
>> Well, I think his uh he is a political
figure and he's demonstrated and I think
that's one of the challenges with with
uh him. you know, I I argued that maybe
we should have somebody who has some
economics or real markets experience
running the Fed. Instead, we got a
politically connected lawyer. Um, again,
and so I think that the challenge is
what we get here is we get someone who
is tied to the administration who's
going to be doing the bidding. He's
basically made that clear. His rhetoric
has been very clear back through time in
terms of uh his soft money rhetoric
aligning very well with previous
administ Republican administrations. And
so I don't see why you would think that
he would uh break out of that mold uh
ahead
>> until the next election. Is that what
you're implying if there's a change in
28?
>> Well, I think it's pretty clear how he's
behaved in the past. Actually, uh Anna
Wong from the Bloomberg team has done a
really good job highlighting how his
language has changed in different
periods depending upon who's in the
office. And so, um, I think it's one of
the rare cases where we have a we have
years, decades of track record to see
what a what his, uh, his rhetoric is
relative to what conditions are and he's
proved himself to be a political actor,
uh, in in making policy.
>> So, let's talk about a hypothetical.
Let's say Torchston is right and that
later this year the economy is running
so hot that people start to think maybe
a rate hike would be necessary. Kevin
Worsh, you're saying if he as a
political actor would not necessarily
take action. What happens? How does this
work if people are waiting until 2028
for that rate hike to happen,
>> right? So, it's an environment, you
know, easy street monetary policy is an
environment that's favorable to gold and
stocks in that environment. Uh, and is
uh is challenging for bonds. Uh, and so
what you'd see is you could easily see
monetary policy on the short end that's
too easy relative to conditions and the
long end is going to punish the market
related to that. So trades, you know,
even right now when you look at what
what's going on with the yield curve,
the yield curve is not that steep
relative to uh to the strength in the
economy, relative to the upside
surprises we've seen, relative to where
we are in the cycle uh and coming out of
a significant easing already. And so I
think trades that favor, you know, easy
street stocks versus bonds, gold and
short dollar positions are all going to
going to uh win in that sort of
environment.
>> 210 is 73. How much steeper are you
looking for that curve to get?
>> Well, remember in typically in growth
rebounds coming out of easing
environments, you see the curve steepen
to hundreds of basis points. And so
while we're squinting at whether it's at
73 and the nearby high and stuff like
that, like from a macro perspective, the
yield curve is very flat right now. And
you have an administration that is very
keen on delivering easy policy relative
to condition. Just quickly, what do you
think is going to drive foreign
exchange, the front end or the longer
end of the curve?
>> I think it's much more about how uh how
uh the the foreign investors see the the
over easy monetary policy that's being
delivered. And so, it's all about that
hedging on expectations that easy money
is going to happen.
>> Bob, thoughtful stuff. Lots to think
about. A very provoking framework to
think about the uh the financial
markets.
>> Yeah. Although
>> although interesting to me that the sell
America trade is not necessarily driven
by antipathy toward of statements coming
out of the white house but rather having
to do with easy money coming out of the
Federal Reserve. This all comes down to
how the Federal Reserve acts if there is
a Torstenike scenario down the line
which is a reaceleration and a Federal
Reserve that maybe ought to be in the
market's eyes talking about a rate hike
but might politically be disincentivized
to do so. You'd have to think that chair
Walsh is going to let that rip if we do
get that rapid acceleration into year
end.
>> Which goes to the question of is it
going to be the Worsh Fed or is it going
to be the everybody Fed chime in and
let's see what we get.
>> Hey Bob, thank you. Thanks for dropping
by. Bob Elliot of Unlimited Funds there.
Your equity market is doing okay. It's
negative this morning by about a tenth
of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yhierra. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. WGO maker Nova Nordis sharing
it is suing Hims and Hers [music] health
for making knockoff knockoffs of its
obesity medicines. The lawsuit alleges
Hymns is breaching its US patent [music]
on semiglutide. Shares of Nova Nordisk
are rallying in the early trade while
Hins and Hers are extending [music]
declines down 17.5%.
Meanwhile, House Minority Leader Hakeem
Jeffrey saying Democrats will not pass
the Department of Homeland Security
funding deal without getting a full
reform or of immigration [music] and
Customs Enforcement known as ICE. The
demands include prohibiting officers
from entering [music] private property
without a judicial warrant and requiring
agents to wear body cameras and ID
badges. [music] Lawmakers have until
Friday to reach a deal. And Kroger is
reportedly naming former Walmart
executive Greg Forin as the supermarket
chain's next CEO. [music] Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg Forin would
be the grocerers's first CEO brought in
from outside [music] the company. The
announcement is expected to come as
early as today as the nation's largest
ger looks to carve a new path after the
unexpected [music]
exit of its former CEO brief. John
Yhara, thank you. More from Mihara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
turning up the heat on the Senate.
>> When uh Kevin Walsh was up to be a
governor of the Fed, he got 100 votes.
So I I would say why don't we get the
hearings underway and see where uh
Janine Piro's investigation goes.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Henred Trees at Vader Partners live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
Coming into the week, believe it or not,
the equal weight S&P [music] at all-time
highs after a rally of 2% last week.
Same story on the Russell. 2% [music]
move even with the volatility in big
tech. NASDAQ futures this morning.
Negative by a third of 1% down just a
tenth on the S&P. [music] Small caps
softer by.1%. That's the story in
stocks. Here's the story in the bond
market. A story out of China. Our
colleagues at Bloomberg reporting that
China's telling Chinese banks to curb
their exposure to US treasuries. The
move not even two basis [music] points.
The 10-year 42259. And maybe that speaks
more to what developed in Japan over the
weekend. A [music] massive blowout win
for Takichi.
>> Yeah. And really highlighting how her
mandate to really make fiscal changes is
significant and resounding which raises
questions why there isn't a more
predictable reaction in Marcus which is
sell the yen. You're seeing the opposite
or potentially sell JGBs in mass. You're
seeing a bit of an increase in terms of
[music] yields there but not necessarily
some wholesale exodus which goes to the
question what's more important fiscal
dominance or growth. And right now
people are saying maybe the growth side
of things in addition to more discipline
will really drive some strength there.
>> Japanese equities record highs
overnight. Japanese equities rallying by
close to 4%. Let's bring it back home
under Savannah this morning turning up
the heat on the Senate.
>> I would point out that when uh Kevin
Walsh was up to be a governor of the
Fed, he got 100 votes and that was led
by his home state senator Chuck Schumer.
So, and Senator Tillis has come out and
said [music] he thinks that Kevin Walsh
is a very strong candidate. Uh, so I I
would say why don't we get the hearings
underway and see where uh Janine Piro's
investigation goes.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Trump administration ramping up the
pressure on the Senate to be in
confirmation hearings for the
president's Fed chair pick. The
Republican Senator Tom Tillis vowing to
block any nominations until the criminal
probe into Jay Powell is complete. Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
welcome to the program. What will the
Senate make of that suggestion from the
Treasury Secretary?
>> Well, John, at this point, I'm not quite
sure if it's really going to make that
much of a difference because at this
point, Senator Tom Tillis is holding
firm that he's going to block the
nomination until the legal matter is
resolved. And the Treasury Secretary
here is appearing to suggest that the
Senate confirmation hearing should
happen in tandem with the DOJ's
investigation because this is a process
that is going to take some time, right?
Worsh needs to sit down privately with
individual senators before his
testimony. And I was on Capitol Hill
last week and I have to say no one on
the Senate Banking Committee could give
me a timeline for when those meetings
are going to be set or when that
confirmation hearing date is going to be
set. And while we still have time, of
course, before Powell's term is up, if
this standoff extends beyond May 15th,
there are unresolved legal questions
about what exactly will happen next
here. Because while the Treasury
Secretary is right, there is broad
support among Republicans when it comes
to Kevin Worsh's nomination, there is
not broad support for the Department of
Justice's investigation into Jerome
Powell. In fact, we're seeing a mounting
number of those on the Senate Banking
Committee raise doubt that there is
anything even to investigate when it
comes to Jerome Powell's testimony
before this very committee. Multiple of
them told me last week that they do not
think that Jerome Powell had any
criminal intent in his testimony to them
last year. Now, John, there's a few
different dates and things that we could
keep on the radar, but I will say I am
closely watching for when we get the
deadline for the Federal Reserve to
comply with the grand jury subpoenas
that were issued. There are still some
big questions about this investigation,
including whether or not compliance is
happening. But once we get that date,
that could give us a little bit more of
a clarity or a timeline to look for
about whether or not the DOJ is
satisfied with the information they're
receiving and whether they will ramp
this up or tone it down.
>> A chorus of Senate Republicans pushing
back over the last week. Tyler, thank
you. Down in Washington, for more,
Henrietta Trace of Vader Partners writes
the following. Senator Tillis can and
will hold up the nomination process and
he has the implicit but silent support
of Republicans in positions of
leadership. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrietta, welcome to the program.
Play this out with us. What if we're in
exactly the same place that we are now
in May in a few months time? What
happens at the top of the Federal
Reserve?
>> Yeah, I mean that's a little bit of my
concern here is I'm I'm not sure why the
administration is being so hard-headed
about this. you really want for there to
be a fresh slate at the Federal Reserve.
And I think one of the biggest issues,
and I hear this from clients all the
time on the road, is that if you get
Worsh confirmed through the Senate,
through the banking committee, and then
he goes to the Senate floor, and as
Secretary Bessant suggested, he has been
able to get unanimous consent from the
members in the past, J. Pal wants for
this candidate to get robust bipartisan
support. That's the goal, 80, 90 votes
in the US Senate. And that is
achievable. And at that point then you
can have Jay Palfield potentially
comfortable stepping aside clearing more
room and giving the president really
what he wants. But instead we're having
this really contentious back and forth
and it's created this ground swell of
questioning around whether or not J Pal
would actually get off the board after
his term as chair is up. And that's
that's something that could be resolved
honestly by some of these votes on the
floor for uh Wars and his confirmation.
But Henrietta, to John's point, what
actually does happen logistically if we
do not have Kevin Worsh nominated and
sailing through the Senate at that
point? Does the Federal Reserve current
chair Jay Powell stay as the chairman or
does the president get to uh put someone
else as an acting Fed chair, which some
individuals say that that is a legal
path forward?
>> Yeah, that's definitely what the White
House is pursuing. that option creates a
real pressure point that allows him to
have his nominee there without having to
go through the United States Senate. Um,
and that's that's I think when I have
these conversations, those are the
parlor games that are playing out. What
we've seen from this administration is
that they can try to stress test the
legal argument. They will. So, I think
we should count on that being the route
that they take from here.
>> Are you seeing anything in the Senate,
especially with Senator Tom Tillis, that
he's willing to maybe back down?
>> No, I'm not. And I've been really close
with Senator Tillis's office for years
now. Um the senator has taken a very
strong stand and I really I stand by
what I wrote uh over the weekend to
clients which is Senator Tillis is doing
the Lord's work for a lot of members who
feel exactly the same way. They do not
like what they have seen from the White
House on Jay Powell. They do not like
the pressure campaign on the Federal
Reserve whether it be with Lisa Cook or
even back to the BLS firing of Erica
McIntyre. But they don't like this um
extreme aggression from the White House.
And so Tillis might be the face of all
this. he doesn't have to run again for
reelection. But the other members behind
the scenes, including the chairman of
the banking committee, Tim Scott, do not
like what they're seeing out of the
White House.
>> Honey, there's a larger point here, and
I think it's an important one. How much
is there a ground swell of push back to
President Trump that could make itself
much clearer even in the Republican
party after the midterm elections? Do
you feel that starting to build or is
this just sort of a one-off issue where
the Federal Reserve's independence is
sort of a different kind of topic?
I think the fed both of those are true.
The Federal Reserve is very much a
different kind of topic and members know
that the Fed chair is an incredibly
important needs to be, you know,
overwhelmingly accepted very unlike a
Supreme Court justice, for example, who
you can get in with 50 votes and JD
bands breaking the tide. Nobody wants
that for the Federal Reserve. So that's
the first piece. The second piece
actually has two layers. As we get
beyond the primary election cycle and
into the general where a Republican will
have to run against a Democratic
challenger, especially in this cycle
where the president is materially
underwater on handling of the US
economy, of prices, inflation, jobs, um,
and immigration. Now, those Republican
candidates have to start deciding
whether they want to run very closely
tethered to the president or if they
want to pull away and try to win a
general. That's going to happen even
before we get to the postmidterm period
and get into the 2028 cycle of who's
going to be the front runner for the
Republican candidacy. Is it going to be
a JD Vance style candidate that will
keep the MAGA mantle or are we drifting
into a Todd Young, Josh Holly, and maybe
a middle ground foreign policy focus
Marco Rubio? Those questions are all
coming our way and they start when we
get into the general election of this
year, not just the primary season we're
in right now.
>> Starting to see just a bit of push back,
aren't we? Ha. Thank you. Ha. praise
their Aveda partners. So the chairman's
last meeting is at the end of April and
we've got some time before we get there.
He steps down in May possibly. I've got
no idea, but you can start to envision a
situation where this mess is not sorted
out by the time we get to the Fed's
April meeting.
>> And we don't really have a sense of what
the clear path is ahead. I mean, if you
do get a Fed chair that presides over
presumably his last meeting in April and
then there is no Fed chair, does he just
stay on or does it become the Waller Fed
in the meantime as one of the governors
take the helm? Ultimately, the lack of
clarity here is going to become messy
for markets as we get closer to this
event.
>> I wonder if it becomes so messy for
markets that you have Senator Tillis
back down or the White House putting
pressure on the DOJ and saying, "All
right, you need to wrap this up because
we need to move this train along."
>> It only gets messy for markets if
markets actually want something from the
Federal Reserve. And I don't think we're
there just yet. If the data continues to
worsen, then we're in a very, very
different spot with regards to the
Federal Reserve. But [music] at the
moment, if the Fed was to have a meeting
tomorrow, I think that meeting would
still be a little bit meh for a lot of
market participants. Depends if Worsh's
uh commentary changes [music] the
picture in terms of what he plans to do.
If we get a sense of who this Kevin
Worsh really is.
>> That could change with a little bit of
payroll data on Wednesday and CPI on
Friday. Richard Clarida [music]
joins us next.
[music]
Equity futures this morning down by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P following a super
[music] volatile week last week which
closed with the biggest one-day gain
since May on the S&P 500. The regional
banks are the story for me though up
every single session through last week
Monday through Friday. The regional bank
stocks record highs and up 7% [music]
last week. Will this economy hold up and
justify the rally? In the bond market,
2year and 10year yields [music] lower on
the week just marginally. the two-year
at 34975. A tugof-war between ISM
[music] manufacturing services and some
weaker than expected labor market data
and we'll get some extra data later this
week which will breathe some life
[music] into the debate of the past few
days.
>> We get finally the non-farm payrolls
report uh for the month of January as
well as some of the benchmark revisions
to the quarterly household survey which
is going to be really interesting in
order to get a sense of the broader 2025
picture. [music] We've gotten weaker
employment data and it hasn't really
meant much for the reaceleration. So
what do we do if we get data that shows
weakness or that shows strength? Can we
infer anything [music]
about the momentum that we're seeing
under the hood and some ISM services and
frankly in a lot of the earnings as
well.
>> Tanya Bonds this morning up just two
basis points just about unchanged
[music] of 423. Let's count you down to
the opening bell two hours away with
some single names for Morning Movers.
Danny has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's the drama between Hims
and Hers and Novo Nordis. First Hims and
Hers comes out with a cheaper GLP-1 pill
around $50 and then Nova Nortis sues
them and then the FDA says that they're
investigating going to ban those copycat
medicines. Well, over the weekend, Hims
and Hers saying [music] they will not be
selling those pills. Him and Hers taking
a beating on that, down almost 20%. No,
notice those ADRs in the US rally
[music] some 5 and a half%. Meanwhile,
uh, Kroger's has confirmed that it will
have a new CEO, Greg Boring, coming from
Walmart, largely [music] credited with
turning around the US business at
Walmart, making it more friendly, making
it more bright. [music] Uh, the previous
CEO of Kroger was ousted uh because of
an investigation into personal conduct.
So, those shares up [music] 5.2%.
Finally, ST Micro, the semiconductor
company, reaching an agreement with
Amazon will will be supplying it with
semiconductors. uh SDM has seen largely
behind on the AI data infrastructure
race. So this is a boost to get it
there. Also, this allows Amazon about
seven years where they can buy STM
stock. Uh so again, shares moving on
that news. Up uh more than 6 and a half%
in the pre-market, John.
>> Hey Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Danny in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, Chinese
regulators advising banks to curb their
holdings of US treasuries. officials
framing the move around diversifying
market risk rather than geopolitical
maneuvering or loss of confidence in
American credit. Elsewhere, the Goldman
Sachs trading desk sounding the alarm,
saying the US stock selloff is not yet
over. The team warning of more trades
from trend following algorithmic funds.
They say a renewed decline could trigger
$33 billion in selling later this week.
And finally, President Donald Trump
taking ownership of the current US
economy after months of blaming the
Biden administration.
The one thing that they don't say
anymore is affordability because uh I
fixed a problem that they created.
>> You said you inherited a mess from
President Biden when it comes to the
economy.
>> But at what point is it on you? At what
point are we in the Trump economy?
>> Oh, I'd say we're there now. I'm I'm
very proud of it.
>> The president predicting an economic
boom this year, saying in a recent
cabinet meeting, growth could reach
quote numbers that have never been hit
before. This goes in counter to a number
of different polls where people aren't
necessarily feeling it and they feel uh
fairly negative uh on average toward
some of the developments. It raises a
question and this just bear with me. If
you're a conspiracy theorist, sometimes
President Trump comes out with things
ahead of data releases because he's seen
the data. Does this mean that the data
is going to actually be better on
Wednesday or is this is signifying more
stimulus down the pike, especially if we
don't have that kind of boost? In other
words, how much of a commitment is this
to trying to make this a good economy
this year regardless of anything that
develops?
>> I think the president is just trying to
market what he's doing given the fact
that this is the Super Bowl of course
interview that he knows millions of
Americans are going to have their eyes
on. What I do think is interesting
though is that they are taking
ownership. I was looking back at our
March interview with Howard Lutnick
where this entire phrase came to be. We
were questioning him about the data and
I think he turned around to you Jonathan
and said, "You're looking at Biden data.
That is not Trump's data." And at this
point now, this administration, we are
at more than a year in to Trump's second
term. They're now owning this data and
they have to.
>> There are many lessons from the Biden
administration. Number one, don't
gaslight the public. They'll see right
through it and you'll get punished at
the polls when the voting comes around.
And I think the administration is very,
very aware of where this economy
actually is and the way people feel.
Otherwise, you wouldn't have seen this
pivot at the back end of last year
coming into this year and leaning into
some very populist ideas ahead of the
midterms.
>> So, what's next? If people still feel
this way, right? How much are we going
to get proposals to try to offset what
people are still feeling? Cuz people
aren't feeling like this is the best
economy in the world.
>> Well, Friday night, it might have been
missed by a lot of individuals because
it came out late, but there was a
directive from this White House about
beef imports. Now, this is going to hurt
farmers and cattle ranchers. They are
upset. They need those high beef prices
because of what is going on right now in
uh reduction we have in cattle, but they
are letting more Argentinian beef in.
And do you know why that is? It's
because beef is at record prices and
this continuously shows up in polls.
Higher groceries. It's a problem.
Inflation data coming this Friday. Jobs
data of course this Wednesday. Let's
turn to the Federal Reserve. The US
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson sharing
his expectations for a Kevin Walsh led
central bank.
>> It was pretty clear to me. I I wrote a
7,000word essay in the International
Economy magazine. I called it gain of
function monetary policy. That's right.
Saying saying that the the Fed had, you
know, gotten kind of out of out of
control. And I I think that Kevin Walsh
is you know going to uh be very
independent but mindful that the Fed is
accountable to the American people.
>> The former Fed vice chair and global
economic adviser of PIMCO Richard Clar
writing Walsh has argued for a new
Treasury Fed accord that could provide a
framework for the Fed working in tandem
with the Treasury to shrink the size of
the balance sheet. Rich joins us now for
more. Rich, good morning.
>> Good morning. want to give you some more
time to explain how you're thinking
about an incoming chair wash and what
might change at the institution you
worked at for so long.
>> Well, thank you for that. Look, Ke Kevin
Worsh I've known for a dozen uh years.
He's accomplished, he's respected. Uh he
has a paper trail uh and he's been quite
specific uh in his assessment and many
cases criticism of Fed practice really
along three dimensions. The balance
sheet he thinks is too big. The Fed has
gotten into credit allocation and
mortgages. He's been critical of forward
guidance, information the Fed provides
about future rates. And he's been
critical that the Fed has not really
anchored its policy in in policy rules.
And so over time, not on day one, but
over time, Jonathan, we could see the
Fed adjusting policy along three of all
three of those dimensions, including the
balance sheet.
>> Well, let's start with communication and
then turn to the balance sheet. The post
GFC Federal Reserve and the
communication apparatus. I'm sure there
were certain things that you were
frustrated with yourself when you were
at the Federal Reserve. What would you
like to see change and what do you think
ultimately Kevin Walsh will change?
>> I think there are a couple things I
would highlight. F first of all, it's
very possible to run a successful
monetary policy without any forward
guidance. Paul Vulkar did it for eight
years and Alan Greenspan did it for his
first 17 uh years. Um forward guidance
providing information about future rates
really became into focus at the Fed in
the global financial crisis. rates were
at zero and the markets kept pricing in
rate hikes and so the Bernani Fed said
we're not hiking uh uh rates and so I
think um it is legitimate for the Fed to
have a conversation and discussion about
the cost as well as benefits of forward
guidance. Uh it could be about the dots.
I think it's more than just the the the
dots. Um so I think that's probably uh a
direction they'll move but it's not
going to change overnight.
So I'm just thinking is this basically
going to spike the dots and you're
saying well you know that's big part of
it. I mean do you expect there to be
some sort of limit on how much other Fed
members can speak right? So there's this
question of how much the Fed has been
dominated by the person at the top. It
has always been the Vernani Fed or uh
what we got with respect to Fed chair
Powell and the Powell Fed. Is this going
to be the worst fed or is there going to
be a different dynamic given some of the
dissents that we're likely to get?
>> I think it will be the washed. I think
it's helpful that that Kevin knows the
institution. I I I think that will be
important in terms of shaping it in his
direction, but it will take time as you
point out. It's a good good question.
The chair has the power of persuasion,
but at the end of the day, he or she
only has one vote. Congress set up the
Fed to require that interest rate
decisions, hike or lower rates, require
an affirmative vote of a committee, and
the committee has 12 members. Now, in
the time we've all been following the
Fed, the chair almost always gets his
his or her way. But if you go further
back, we've had situations where the
chair has been outvoted on both discount
rate and federal funds rate changes. Uh,
I'm not I'm not predicting that, but
what I am saying is Kevin Worsh will
have to work with the committee and will
have to bring the committee along with
him if he wants to make the changes that
he says he wants to make.
>> Does the m committee include Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson? And I asked this
because we're talking about a potential
accord between the Federal Reserve and
the Treasury. We also have heard
Treasury Secretary Besson talking about
Fed policy, what he expects them to do
with the balance sheet, which raises
this issue of whether as Krishna says he
has a soft veto over what Kevin Worsh
would do. I mean, what's your sense of
what this looks like?
>> Well,
it's a complex issue, but let me let me
distill it. The Fed balance sheet and
profitability is ultimately consolidated
with with the Treasury. Um and so
ultimately the stock of treasuries
outstanding is going to reflect the
issuance that Scott Besson oversees and
the Fed's programs of quantitative
easing. Um and I think it is appropriate
to have a discussion with the Fed and
the Treasury over time about the way to
balance off the objectives of the of the
securities outstanding um without of
course impinging on the Fed's ability to
set monetary policy. It's possible to do
that. the Fed could run monetary policy
with a much shorter duration portfolio
as was the case before the global
financial crisis. And also remember if
you go back to the early days of of uh
after or the global financial crisis,
the Fed was actually talking about
selling securities and very quickly
getting back to a small balance sheet.
And so these are complex issues. It's
not going to change overnight, but I
think they are legitimate areas to have
a conversation. It
>> they're not going to change overnight.
And the Treasury Secretary made that
clear his interview over the weekend.
and he said, "I wouldn't expect them to
do anything quickly on the balance
sheet." So, what kind of timeline are we
actually looking at?
>> Well, given that the Fed's been talking
about this off and on for 15 years, it
may be a very long u very long timeline.
Um, and in particular, um, uh, the Fed
has made the decision, which could be
changed, that it does not want to sell
any securities. And so when the Fed is
shrinking its balance sheet through
so-called QT, it's not selling anything.
Uh it's just letting existing securities
roll off. Other central banks do sell
assets. The Bank of England regularly
sells guilts into the guilt market. Um
the the the Fed itself has talked about
selling mortgage back securities. And so
these are all ideas that have sort of
been in the conversation at the Fed for
um a while, but but it's not going to
happen overnight. The
>> Trump administration says they want to
take politics out of the Fed. We just
heard from Bob Elliot. He was saying how
Kevin Walsh isn't hawkish or dovish.
He's a political animal. I don't know if
you saw over the weekend, but there was
a chart really going all over Twitter
where you could see his rhetoric
changing depending on if it was a
Democrat or Republican White House,
especially depending on if he was maybe
in the running to be Fed chair, how
doubish he became. What do you make of
that given how long you've known him?
>> Yeah. Um I didn't see that chart. What I
would say is the Fed under J. pal uh in
the last year and a half has been
cutting rates and the dots those
infamous dots in December showed that a
majority of the committee thought at
least one rate cut this year would be
appropriate and so I don't necessarily
uh infer anything other than war sees
the economy as the Fed did at least in
in in December. Um I do seem to remember
uh Kevin not being entirely
complimentary of of the pal Clara Fed
either during my time there. So, I don't
think it's entirely um uh driven by any
of those considerations.
>> Rich, can we finish on to Slo of Apollo?
He put out this over the weekend. A
lovely reaction to it. He said, "The US
economy is about to take off later this
year. The conversation in markets will
change from talking about Fed cuts to
instead talking about the Fed having to
hike."
>> What's your reaction to hearing that?
>> I think I've said on this show, I I
think there is an upside case for the
economy this year. The tech capex boom
is real. Um there there will be those
big beautiful bill tax cuts that people
are getting. Foreign companies are
building plant and equipment in the in
the US. Um whether or not pal was asked
that question perhaps by Mike McGee at
the press conference recently about uh
rate hikes and he more or less said
that's not something that we're thinking
about uh right now. Uh but it it gets to
the forward guidance issue that we
discussed a moment ago. it it may well
become part of the conversation if we
get an economic boom this year
especially if inflation doesn't return
back towards um the target and at that
point the forward guidance that
skepticism about forward guidance that
some have indicated including Kevin
Walsh may may come to a test
>> rich it's good to see you always great
to catch up thank you sir Richard Clar
there the former Fed vice chair and now
back of course over at PIMCO let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief
joining us now Here's Yahihara. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. In Japan, Prime Minister Say
Takahichi [music] secured a historic
election win. Her Liberal Democratic
Party winning a twoth3 superma majority
in the lower house, which positions her
as the nation's strongest leader in
decades. In remarks, [music] Takahuchi
vowed to build trust with financial
markets amid concerns over how she'll
pay for a planned [music] tax cut.
Meanwhile, here a federal judge ordering
the Trump administration to unfreeze
funding for the Gateway Rail Tunnel
[music] project after construction shut
down due to a lack of funds. This came
after the White House offered to restore
funding if Senator Chuck Schumer [music]
pushed to rename Dallasos airport and
New York Penn Station after the
president. [music]
And if you didn't stay up late enough,
the Seattle Seahawks are Super Bowl
champions after a dominant performance
over the New England Patriots. Seattle
held New England scoreless until the
fourth quarter, finishing the game with
[music] six sacks, two interceptions,
and a fumble recovery. Running back
Kenneth Walker was named MVP after
rushing for [music] 135 yards. It's the
second title in Seattle franchise
history. That's your Bloomer Brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program,
questioning the [music] AI trade.
>> There's not just questions about
valuations, but it's actually the
models. Uh can they actually deliver?
which part of the market could they
cannibalize themselves etc. So
increasingly for investors who once upon
a time could see this as a one-way
trade. This is really about dispersion.
>> Up next we'll catch up with John Belton
of Gabelli Funds from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Let's start with the scores. Equity
futures negative by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 down by a third.
Massive volatility for tech stocks last
week. Huge numbers as well. $650 billion
of capex intentions announced by some of
these guys. And a big one coming from
Alphabet. [music] Google. Alphabet this
morning kicking off a sevenpart dollar
bond [music] sale that is going to be
closely watched after announcing $185
billion of capex just last week. Yeah.
How [music] does the market handle this?
We already dealt with Oracle's bond
sale. It cleared. How does the market
handle a 100year bond sale from Google,
which evidently there is a pound uh
denominated trunch that's 100 years
long. I mean, how much do we get people
bidding into [music] 15-year alphabet
debt at a time when they clearly need
the money? It used to be they didn't
need the money. Now they're selling
bonds because they actually need it for
some of their capex ambitions. When
credit and credit issue this big
issuance comes through, sometimes it
kicks around the Treasury market and
you're seeing that this morning. Yields
up by an extra basis point 424 on 10.
That's a lot of supply to absorb and
[music] something we'll closely watch
through today's session.
>> And who's going to buy it and how are
they going to finance it and how much
they financing it on the longer end of
the Treasury curve given the fact that
some of [music] these uh tech behemoths
have leaned on longduration bond
issuance. I mean, think about this. long
duration bond issuance to buy Nvidia
chips. They're going to go out of date
in three years. I mean, it just sort of
highlights uh the the situation. It's
like a civ.
>> US Treasury issuing debt later this week
as well. 10 of 30-year bond issues. So,
lots of supply coming this week going
into CPI on Friday and payrolls on
[music] Wednesday. Under surveillance
this morning, questioning the AI trade.
in Q3 Q4 of last year the narrative
around tech um and AI was really about
uh questioning of valuations that bubble
the the capex spend and now you're
seeing it shift even further so that
there's not just questions about
valuations but it's actually the models
uh can they actually deliver which part
of the market could they cannibalize
themselves etc so increasingly for
investors who once upon a time could see
this as a one-way trade this is really
about dispersion
>> so here's the latest this morning waking
up following a massive week of volat
volatility. NASDAQ 100 wiping out $700
billion in market value. John Belton of
Gabelli Funds writing, "Valuations have
had a healthy reset. Longer term, the
reality is that as always, there will be
winners and losers." John joins us now
for more. John, welcome to the program,
sir. Can we live in a world where capex
is both a waste of money and AI is
ridiculously disruptive?
>> I don't think so. I think that's why
you're seeing these types of capex
numbers because this technology is very
clearly transformative. It's already got
a couple major commercial use cases. I
think so far we've seen digital
advertising, digital commerce, um cloud
computing, and now it seems like
software development are three massive
use cases that are already proven. Many
more to come, but I think that's why
you're seeing these huge capex numbers.
John, last week in the price action, as
you know, a lot of people were
preoccupied with the pain, the
disruption. What about the benefits?
Where are you focused on the benefits?
>> Well, again, I think I' I'd go back to
the comment I just made where clearly
digital advertising, uh, the the big
giants in digital advertising,
specifically Alphabet and Meta, clear
beneficiaries. These are, you know,
several hundred billion dollar ad
businesses that are reacelerating at
that kind of scale. That's that's kind
of amazing to to think about. Um, so I
think that's that's beneficiary number
one and and the way they're using AI to
support these businesses. So it's not
just about, you know, delivering the
right ads in front of the right people
and defining those audiences. It's about
automatically generating ads and and
making the process easier for their
advertisers. So I think there's still so
much to be done in that area. And then I
think cloud computing is is the next and
and and that's obviously a broad term
but you're seeing these cloud businesses
um from the likes of Amazon, Alphabet,
Microsoft and Oracle similarly
reacelerate at 100 plus billion dollar
scale. So I think those are very the
early beneficiaries seem pretty
concentrated in those areas and I think
we'll see how that uh unfolds going
forward. John, if you buy, and I do, I
think a lot of people do, that AI is
going to change the world and be
incredibly profitable for companies that
are able to adopt it, that's one thing.
It's another thing to say that the
multiples that we currently have on some
of these tech stocks are justified based
on the fact that they're no longer
asset-like companies. They are
increasingly incurring debt. Google is
selling debt now at 40-year uh
maturities in the United States,
according to this latest prospectus. and
suddenly they're burning through cash
and not able to buy back their shares.
How much does that make you have to
rerate some of the valuations on these
stocks regardless of the view forward on
AI?
>> Yeah, you know, I I would just clarify a
couple things you said. So, first of
all, none of these companies are burning
cash right now, right? I I think Oracle
would be the one exception among the big
uh cloud companies, but you know, Meta,
Google, Amazon, Microsoft, these are
still positive free cash flow companies.
they're still, you know, 30 plus%
operating margin companies. So, I don't
think, you know, yes, they are in an
investment cycle. That is true. But
burning cash, I think overstates, you
know, the extent to which they're
spending. Um, and then I think you look
at these balance sheets. These are all
by and large net cash balance sheets.
So, I think issuing debt, that's that's
just a matter of capital structure
optimization. That's that's just a, you
know, prudent way of of optimizing the
mix of of funding for these businesses.
So I don't these these companies have no
balance sheet issues. They have no cash
flow issues. And in terms of valuation,
I think you go we'll stick with the mag
six um being Alphabet, Amazon,
Microsoft, Meta, um Nvidia, and I forget
who else I'm I'm I'm forgetting right
now, but I think at least three of those
companies are trading at a below market
price earnings ratio. and and valuation
is not an investment thesis in and of
itself, but I really don't see valuation
or balance sheet health or cash flow as
a big risk right now. I think the risk
is more so, you know, are these uh
earnings estimates for the next couple
years uh going to prove uh too lofty and
and are they going to be able to deliver
on the the techn the technological
progress that AI does offer?
>> Hey, John, this was super well framed
and we appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. John Bton there of Cabelli Funds
with an important point on Alphabet at
the end. Alphabet tapping the US
high-grade bond market looking to issue
a sevenpart bond sale through today.
>> Yeah. Including a 40-year piece that's
priced 1.2 percentage points above
Treasury. So, if you want to know why
long-term treasuries are selling off in
response to this, it's because evidently
Google is a competitor to the US
government for your dollars. And maybe
some people would prefer to put it with
Google. We shall see. [music] This is
going to take place today. The Oracle
debt was taken down really well in the
last week. So, another test for the debt
market from [music] a company with a
much more healthier balance sheet,
Alphabet. Coming up on the program, Jill
Kerry Hall of Bank of America, Frankly
of HSBC, Luke Tilly of Wilmington Trust,
Osen Quan of Wells Fargo. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
There are lots of crossurrens. This
isn't just about software. This isn't
just about AI.
>> Everybody says there's insatiable demand
for AI. I'm not sure we're quite seeing
that yet.
>> There is a lot of companies that are
going to benefit significantly [music]
from the AI build.
>> It does feel though that we're starting
to approach maybe the end of that
sell-off.
>> This is such a generational
transformation. We're going to live in
this bumpy ride.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance [music]
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern. [music] Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Your
scores look like this. Equity futures
down not even a tenth of 1% [music] on
the S&P 500. The NASDAQ down by2. A week
that is stacked with economic data,
including retail sales tomorrow,
payrolls Wednesday, [music]
claims Thursday, and then CPI coming up
on Friday.
>> This is going to be the data that we've
been waiting for. Whether it gives us
clarity is another question, but it
really was emphasized last week. [music]
how important it is for the US economy
to remain strong, for the overall index
to not fall out of bed. [music] Because
even though we saw huge draw downs to
some of the tech stocks, we saw a
basically flat market because of the
strength in the cyclicals. Can this
continue? It really hinges on the
[music] real economy.
>> Down just 0.1% on the week on the S&P,
which is crazy to think about within one
percentage point of alltime highs
>> and what's going on in terms of the
[music] data that everyone is looking
forward to. The scope could not be wide.
-10 to upwards of 100,000 are right now
when you look at our street [music]
economists estimating 69k but the more
important for this data is it's going to
be clean after a massive government
shutdown [music] and then right after
that we're going to get CPI so putting
this all together and these what the
market's going to be focused on
>> plenty of people out there still really
bullish on the US economy the rate cuts
we've already had the tax refunds we're
about to see and this $650 [music]
billion of capex coming from four
companies and this is what's happening
in the debt market equity side of up by
0.6%. Alphabet on the debt side, a
sevenpart dollar bond sale announced by
the Google parent company just moments
ago.
>> It is going to be I can't emphasize
enough how important it is to watch
[music] how this debt is received in the
market. As you were mentioning, John,
Oracle sold its bond offering and it was
cleared in flying colors through
markets. Investors definitely were were
welcoming the [music] bonds. Do we get
the same dynamic from Google? Google has
a better balance sheet. Google has a
better story to tell even than Oracle
does. Do they get the kind [music] of
spreads that they're looking for? If
they do, does that say green light to
all of those capex spending plans
because the capital markets will finance
that?
>> They're funding a lot of that through
cash flow anyway. Visa cash machines,
some of these companies, but there is a
lot of paper that's going to be issued
this year. The Treasury, corporate
America, and we're [music] going to get
some big IPOs as well. That's in the mix
when we have this conversation, too.
Anthropic being one, maybe OpenAI,
SpaceX another. These are some of the
biggest IPOs this country has ever seen
and [music] everything feels like it's
coming all at once
>> and it raises the question of how much
capital markets will tolerate some of
the hopes and dreams of [music] the big
tech names and frankly the whole broader
space. Right now they are showing some
nerves and that I think is the reason
why people are saying watch each
consecutive debt uh sale. If there is
one that does not clear, watch that to
trickle out in magnified form throughout
all of markets. This really is important
to watch. We've got a lot of supply to
absorb this week, including issuance
from the Treasury. Tens [music] and 30s,
threes as well, I think through the
week. Yields a little bit higher this
morning. Up by three basis points on 10
at the very long end of the curve on a
30-year [music] maturity. Yields up by
four basis points to 489. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Jill Kerry
Hall of Bank of America with stocks
edging lower. Frankly, of HSBC as Nvidia
is silencing the latest AI concerns, and
Luke Tilly of Wilmington Trust
previewing a big week of economic data.
We begin this hour with stocks wavering
following a volatile stretch for big
tech. Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of America
Securities writing, "Given the risk,
investors may be best served looking for
inexpensive opportunities that have
overly discounted the risk or that are
AI beneficiaries." Joel joins us now for
more. Joe, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Where does that
take you? Where do you land? Well, I
think you know with respect to that was
with respect to to software within the
the you know Russell 2000 where you know
overall we've obviously seen a big
correction in the the broader software
industry and I think the the sentiment
is obviously still uncertain there but
but still given how much it's sold off
you know certainly some opportunities um
I think you know within within the
Russell 2000 though where where
potentially some bigger opportunities
could be are areas that you know are
still inexpensive and you know given the
the ASM print that we saw last week. Um,
you know, this is something that has
been highly correlated not only to
corporate earnings but to relative
performance of small caps relative to
large caps. And I think you know that
that manufacturing recovery can help
sort of cement investors confidence in
the earnings recovery and benefit some
parts of small caps that you know are
historically more sensitive to the ISS.
>> For us, that's what's changed coming
into 2026 that the small cap story
through the Russell has been less about
rates and much more about the economy.
Are you seeing the more cyclical parts
of the market more broadly pick up in
anticipation of a pickup in economic
growth?
>> Well, I think we've we've generally
seen, you know, a broadening out of, you
know, even within the Russell of what's
been working so far this year. And, you
know, I think within within small caps,
there are areas like financials and
energy that are still, even though the
Russell 2000 is now trading a bit above
its historic average valuation multiple,
those are areas that are still cheap. um
financials in particular is still
ranking very well in in our work. Um and
these are areas that historically when
the ISM has crossed above 50, these have
been areas that have historically
outperformed.
>> Is this entirely driven at this point
about the economy? And is it fair to say
that any kind of rate cutting cycle has
already been fully priced in to this
particular sector?
>> Well, I think you know it's important
that we still get rate cuts this year.
our our economists are expecting to and
the the Russell 2000 has been extremely
sensitive to to Fed expectations. So I
think the fact that you know we've been
discounting Fed cuts and if we get those
Fed cuts that'll be enough to support
the Russell but if we start to get cuts
priced out or even expectations of hikes
then that becomes a lot more challenging
because the index has been so highly
correlated with with the Fed and and
data that feeds into Fed expectations.
It's not just small caps. It's all the
cyclicals that have really been
outperforming. And some people can say
as Max Kner did earlier today of HSBC,
this is going to continue and it's going
to keep driving optimism in the overall
index. Jim Reed, as John was mentioning
uh earlier, talks about how this is very
similar to 2000 where you saw that rapid
broadening out in the first six months
of 2000 and then the rest is history.
Why are you confident that this is going
to be more of the Max Kentner version of
things where this is sustainable even if
you get those potholes in some of the
big tech names?
>> Yeah, I mean even within the S&P 500,
you know, even though we earnings growth
will still be driven largely by tech
this year, we we and consensus are
expecting that you see, you know, a
deceleration of of earnings for the MAG
7, the the big names versus a pickup for
the rest of the the market. So, you
know, within the S&P 500, we're more
bullish on the equal weighted S&P 500
than the cap weighted index. And then,
you know, even down in small and
midcaps, that's where the big earnings
recovery is expected to be after we were
in this prolonged earnings recession,
manufacturing downturn. Um, so I think,
you know, we were in a period where that
that earnings recovery kept getting
pushed out, especially for for the small
and midcap segment. So I think if we get
continue to get data like the ISM we got
we just got that helps cement investors
confidence in this earnings recovery and
more cyclical recovery and the fact that
corporate guidance has actually been
pretty supportive. You know I think
gives us and can give investors a little
bit more confidence this time around.
You know usually at the beginning of the
year guidance is very weak. Corporates
have incentive to be conservative but um
it's actually been much stronger than it
usually is in January and February. So
that's been an encouraging data point as
well. One reason why there has been also
optimism is because capital markets have
been wide open. It's being tested right
now. Uh the capital markets collectively
based on all the activity that's
expected. John laid it out earlier and
we're now getting debt sales that are
only escalating to finance some of the
capbacks ambitions of the big tech names
in particular, but more broadly, how
important is it for all of these sales
to go well in order to keep some of the
optimism in the rotation and just
frankly the growth trade in the United
States? Mhm. Yeah. I mean I think you
know some of the ones that that you
mentioned will be important to watch and
I think just you know the hyperscalers
if they are becoming more uh you know
levered in in general the these stocks
have become so capital intensive in many
cases more so than even the oil majors
and you know typically big capex
spenders historically tend to to
underperform. So you know what we've
seen in recent years has been an anomaly
versus what typically happens. So, you
know, I think there's a lot more focus
on, you know, that aspect of things. And
I think in general, you know, with with
the M&A and IPO backdrop that's going to
be, you know, impactful to watch.
Everyone had kind of been expecting that
we could see a pickup this year if if
economic growth and conditions remain
supportive. Um, you know, I think it's
not necessarily for something like small
caps, you know, will will the outlook
for the Russell 2000 hinge on M&A or IPO
backdrop? Not necessarily. We haven't
necessarily seen that historically,
surprisingly. the the Russell's actually
um underperformed more frequently than
it's outperformed in years where we've
seen heavy M&A activity. But I do think
you know for certain sectors um you know
especially uh if we see an M&A pickup in
uh financials regional banks that can
help sentiment there uh tech and
healthcare healthcare has been an area
where we did see a lot of M&A activity
but case for that to continue. Um, IPOs
have been, you know, an area that's been
a bit more challenging for small caps
because a lot of companies have been
staying private longer, going public
larger. So, you know, I think the
opportunity set for for small caps has
become a bit more more narrow and uh the
the growth backdrop for small caps is
not necessarily what it once was, you
know, in the 90s, early 2000s.
>> Joe, you put a lot of emphasis on the
ISM manufacturing, but how much of that
was because of what we saw with
basically the inventories being drawn
down? Well, I think overall, you know,
the if indicators like the ISM and just
the demand backdrop, um, I think if we
continue to see reshoring of US
manufacturing, anything that leads to a
continued prolonged capex cycle in the
US, small cap sales growth is highly
correlated with with US capex growth.
So, you know, I think that that overall
any of the indicators that suggest that
that story is continuing should be kind
of a positive multi-year story for
domestic, small, and midcap companies.
Um, so, you know, I I think we'll we'll
continue to watch those indicators, but
the fact that we finally came out of
this, you know, manufacturing downturn
and potentially that continues, uh, you
know, is something that had been one of
the bare cases for small caps this year.
If that doesn't occur,
>> is there any tension between what's
happening with small caps and what's
happening with staples at the moment on
the S&P
>> with with consumer staples?
>> The fact that they're up 14% year to
date.
>> Yeah, staples is an interesting one. I
mean, you know, within our our large cap
work, we had recently upgraded consumer
staples in our year ahead. It's
obviously been kind of this bombed out
sector. And, you know, now potentially
you're starting to see kind of guidance,
second derivative turn in terms of
revisions. Even within small caps, it's
been ranking better. I mean, if you see
pockets of tariff relief that that
benefit staples and and so I'd say
that's one sector, even when I looked at
the the ISM, that's been kind of the one
defensive sector even within small caps
that actually tended to do well after
the ISM crossed above 50. Um, so that's
one that even though some of our
preferences have been for more of the
cyclical sectors, that is one more
defensive sector that we do see
potential for recovery and if there's a
focus on affordability um, you know, for
low-income consumers who have struggled,
you know, potentially we we see th those
tailwinds there.
>> One to watch. Jill, thank you as always.
Thank you. Jill Carrie Hall there of
Bank of America. Speaking of recoveries,
the S&P 500 no longer negative on the
session. We're just about unchanged on
the S&P. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahihara [music]
has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. We're seeing Alphabet shares
edging lower after the tech giants
announced a seven-part [music] dollar
bond sale. It's the latest in what's
been a borrowing spree by companies at
the forefront of the AI investment
[music] boom. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg Alphabets is also offering
debts in pound sterling and Swiss Frank
denominated bond. And Bank of France
Governor Francois Villaroy is stepping
down from his post. Villoy is set to
leave office on June 1st, more than a
year before his mandates [music] ends.
The central banker saying his decision
to leave was personal and he plans to
take over as head of a foundation.
[music]
And moving on to golf, which was
surprisingly more exciting than the
Super Bowl. Chris Gotup won the Phoenix
Open [music] this weekend, defeating
Hideki Matsuyama in a playoff. Matsuyama
entered the final hole with a one-shot
lead, but struggled off the T- box as
Godup drilled a long birdie, securing
[music] the victory. This is Godup's
second win on the PA PGA Tour this
season. That brief John,
>> this I did actually watch. Of course,
you know,
>> look at your face.
>> No, I'm laughing because I just felt
like it was just me and maybe five other
people.
>> I don't think so. I'm pretty sure that
Yahara also and I think a lot of other
people as well. People looking for
excitement. I was wondering how this got
into the news and I was like, "Oh, of
course it's probably the only thing John
>> I didn't make this happen. It's just
[music] it was pretty funny because if
this had carried on, I still would have
watched this instead of the start of the
Super Bowl."
>> Oh, I know that. But you know what the
truth is?
>> Just supporting [music] Jim Nance over
at CBS.
>> But I think that actually wouldn't be
the only one. I mean, I was watching
figure skating. So there you go.
>> Up next on a program, the morning cause
plus Frankly of HSBC as Nvidia is
silencing the latest AI concerns. That
conversation just around the corner from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
I think it's important with the software
names to take a step back and think
about the technicals because they are
very very oversold. I think the big
question is can [music] software regain
its leadership coming out of this
bounce. I think that's a lot more in
question just simply [music] because
there's all these doubts of things that
effectively software companies can't
disprove at this point because it's AI
risks that could be out 1 2 [music] 3 4
years in the future.
>> That's part of the difficulty right now.
That was Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth joined us a little bit earlier on
this morning. If you're just tuning in,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 just about negative. No
drama though. We're down about a tenth
of 1%. Drama-filled week last week on
the NASDAQ 100. The worst week of the
year so far this morning, down another
tenth of 1%. [music] That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Medius downgrading
Microsoft to hold, expecting free cash
flow to dip in the near term. Elsewhere,
[music] JP Morgan raising its price
target on Cisco to 95, citing
accelerating revenue growth. And
finally, DA Davidson upgrading Oracle to
a buy, saying it will benefit from
OpenAI exceeding [music] expectations
this year. That stock's bouncing back.
is up by 5% in focus last week after a
big debt issue from that company taken
down [music] really well. Speaking of
debt issues, we will get one from
Alphabet, the Google parent company,
kicking off a 7p part US bond sale
through this [music] morning.
>> Yeah, including a 40-year trunch. This
follows, as you mentioned, the $25
billion sale of Oracle debt that went
quite well. This is expected as part of
at least $40 billion of investment grade
bond issuance in the United States so
far this week. a very heavy [music]
slate ahead and really it raises a
question of how differently each of
these issuers will be treated. In other
words, are there going to be winners and
losers when it comes to these sectors
and how easy it is to clear the bar for
debt investors who are seemingly okay
with the debt issuance that they're
coming out with because they still are
cash cows and they aren't [music]
necessarily negative profiles even if
equity markets are concerned.
>> One of the winners should be Nvidia
[music]
as the headline crosses the Bloomberg
that they're looking to raise 15 billion
over Alphabet. One of the winners should
[music] be the chip players. They're
going to be spending a fortune on capex.
Who wins? This is what was odd about
last week is these capex intentions
rolled out and the fact that we were
seeing Broadcom and Nvidia up until
Friday trade really soft on the week. It
was just really difficult to get my head
around. Aren't they going to be spending
money on the chips these guys produce?
>> It seems like people finally got around
to asking that question and answering it
and saying, "Yeah, because on Friday we
saw some of that rebound. Does it
continue?" because ultimately a lot of
this capex is going to go to buying the
the latest generation of chips and
frankly not even buying them solidifying
their order books for future uh
deliveries. So definitely a lot of
people thinking the same thing that you
are
>> frankly of HSBC as a buy rating 320
price target on shares of Nvidia. I'm
pleased to say that Frank Lee joins us
now for more. Frank, welcome to the
program. Last week was curious. We had
this drip feed of massive numbers coming
from big tech and yet some of the major
chip players were trading soft through
the week. Could you make sense of that,
Frank?
>> Sure. I I I think what you've seen over
the last couple of months though that
there's already been a little bit of an
AI diffusion trade. So, you know, Nvidia
and Bracom have been underperforming
overall for the last few months. Uh, as
I think as the market has shifted to
things such as the memory shortage with
ongoing price hikes, that's offering
better near-term earnings momentum as
prices keep going up almost every month.
We're also seeing I think you know a bit
more focus on AI networking you know so
you're seeing names like coherent
lumenum they were seeing very strong
earnings speeds and guidances very
similar to the way people started
looking at the AS6 story so I I think
that's part of the reason is there just
seems to be you know more uh growth in
other areas um relative to the big blue
chip semi-names that started off this AI
cycle
>> so Frank that raises the question just
how these names will perform when these
big IPOs materialize later this year
anthropic open AI what's going to
to the story of yesterday year.
>> Yeah. So I I think you know what we need
to see really um if you look at the
capex spend of these big hyperscalers
what was interesting was that the
initial reaction was some muted because
even though we saw $150 billion of
incremental capex since the beginning of
the year for 2026. Yeah. I think there's
some debate about how much of it is
going into the actual GPU and the ASIC
chips because one thing that we've also
seen is memory has seen a significant
almost you know once in a generation
upturn. So that is driving a lot of uh
revenue revision on the memory name. So
if you look at how much memory revenues
have been revived to 2026 it's also been
about 150 billion. So it's almost a
onetoone match meaning that the
incremental capex we saw seems to be
going some of it to the memory space and
how much is left over for the you know
for more upside to the uh to the memory
to the actual chip guys like Broncom and
Nvidia. I think that was a question the
market was contemplating earlier.
>> So what's the answer Frank? I mean do
you think that ultimately this is going
to go more to the Qualcomms of the world
or even the Samsungs or do you think
that ultimately there's a lot more to
flow up to the top of the chain? I I
think what you need to see is two
things. I think the velocity of these
price hikes on the memory side as it
starts to kind of level off that will be
good for the chip the original AI chip
guys because then I think we'll see this
increased spending come back to the uh
to the original chip makers. And
secondly, I think that also suggests
that perhaps this $150 billion, you
know, upward revision on capex is not
enough for this year. We may see
actually further revisions throughout
the year. And and that's part of the
fundraising that we're seeing from these
hyperscalers because remember if you
look at 025 we started off the beginning
of the year with higher than expected
capex and it kept getting raised
throughout the year and so we're
starting off this year in a similar spot
where again it's these numbers have beat
the market expectations for this year's
capex but it could continue to go higher
throughout the year.
>> Frank, why is it so important for the
likes of Nvidia to have strong
investments in the likes of OpenAI? And
I asked this at a time when there is a
lot of concern about circular financing
and how much uh there needs to be
essentially vendor financing, right? The
likes of Nvidia giving a company money
to then buy its chips. I mean, what's
the rationale behind this?
>> Well, I I think um Nvidia's dependency
on the original hyperscalers driving
their their overall revenues. It's that
narrative isn't quite as as the same as
it was two years ago because we've seen
these hyperscalers looking to develop
their own chips, right? The ASC chip
that's driving Broadcom with Google and
TPU. So, Nvidia needs to really increase
their TAM opportunities outside of the
core CSPs and that's enterprise that's
sovereign and empowering that is our
companies like OpenAI. I mean, Stargate
is basically a sovereign project. So I
think that's why it's more important
that you know Nvidia needs to find a way
to expand its original market beyond the
uh the hyperscalers.
>> Frank just pulling you away a little bit
from hardware. Forgive me but I do think
that it's associated with the
conversation you're ultimately having.
Isn't Gemini an Alphabet and the money
they're throwing at this market right
now to win just crushing the OpenAI
story.
>> I think it's uh you know it's it's been
a back and forth over the last couple
months. I think the narrative has
shifted in favor of Google not only
because of open uh not only because of
Gemini but Google has done a lot to on a
hardware side both on the chips as well
as a networking that's closed the gap
but at the same time we know we do
expect there will be another upgrade
model for open AAI coming out in the
next few months and so we'll see whether
that momentum can start swinging the
other way so I I think it's still a
little too early to say definitively
who's going to be the long-term at the
moment everyone's expanding uh and still
very much in the game.
>> Frank, forgive me for going back to an
earlier question, but I do want to get
your ideas on what this might mean for
semis. This OpenAI
IPO, how much of a market event that
will be for the whole ecosystem?
>> Well, I I think it's very important
because OpenAI sort of kicked off that
whole narrative of this much bigger TAM
with a number of gigawatts uh and how
that's going to drive, you know, much
more revenue. We've done some work
looking that if the 18 gawatt expansion
for ai materializes as expected that
could potentially double Nvidia's data
center revenue by almost 100% from where
we are this year. I mean they're going
to probably approach 350 billion in
revenue just on data centers. The
magnitude and scale of you know these uh
gigawatt uh announcements could almost
double the revenue from where we are
this year.
>> Interesting Frank. Thank you sir. Thanks
for being open and honest with us.
Frankly, they're of HSBC on Nvidia and
the whole ecosystem. If you're just
joining us, a few headlines I want to
get through this morning. So, this was
from Alphabet a little bit earlier. So,
they're going to raise about $15 billion
from a sevenpart US debt sale. This
follows Oracle in the past few weeks or
so. They issued about 25 billion. That
was taken down pretty well. Bear in mind
that Alphabet has a super strong balance
sheet relative to say an Oracle. So, I'm
not anticipating massive concerns there,
but we'll track the numbers anyway. This
came from the NEC director moments ago
and this I think is material from Kevin
Hasset. We should expect slightly lower
jobs numbers and lower jobs numbers
shouldn't trigger panic. What's that
headline about going into payrolls on
Wednesday?
>> It seems like we're not going to get a
good number and two-year yields are
rolling over as a result of this. Uh
they're lower not by a significant
amount, just by about two basis points,
but it highlights people are taking this
as forward guidance on what we should
expect on Wednesday's non-farm payrolls.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Luke Tilly of Wilmington Trust
previewing [music] a big week of
economic data.
[music]
Stocks are down by about 0.1% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.2 2
in the bond market. Curious story
emerging in the last hour [music] or so.
Yields were up at the long end of the
curve. 10-year bond yields higher by
about three or four basis points at one
point. A couple of reasons for that. A
story out of China that Chinese banks
were urged to curb exposure to US
treasuries, the massive performance
[music] out of Japan, the fact that
Japanese bond yields on a 10-year
maturity rose just a little bit. And
then we also had a sevenpart dollar bond
sale from Alphabet. $15 billion debt
sale coming from Alphabet. a little bit
later this morning. All reasons for high
yields and then this happened months
ago. Kevin Hasset, the NEC director with
a strong steer going into Wednesday's
payrolls report saying that we should
expect slightly lower jobs numbers and
those lower jobs numbers shouldn't
[music] trigger panic. Those headlines
crossing just moments ago and for all
the reasons for high yields this
morning, yields reverse course [music]
lower particularly at the front end of
the curve. We're down by about a basis
point or two to 348. So you say uh
giving a steer and [music] that is
certainly how the market is treating it.
It would be highly unusual for someone
who got a forward look on the data that
would doesn't come out until Wednesday
at 8:30 a.m. Eastern [music] to deliver
that in sort of a wink wink nod nod. So
it raises this question what exactly is
he talking about in terms of what he's
expecting? Is it based on his own
analysis? And then furthermore, how much
is this going to drive some skepticism
in equities as we're seeing right now?
because ultimately it speaks to the real
economy that [music] needs to keep
chugging along in order for the overall
index to remain at a higher level.
>> Well, I can't speak to exactly [music]
what Kevin Hassid is seeing. Is this his
own analysis or did he actually see the
jobs report? What I do know is that the
White House does get the jobs report
ahead of the release. [music] It's a
little bit awkward now cuz we were
supposed to have it on Friday was
Wednesday. He could have gotten it last
night or seen [music] it this morning
and then that is potentially where some
of these remarks and what he's thinking
about in terms of the labor market are
coming from. So the estimates as you
know going into Wednesday super super
wide 135 at the high endgative -10 at
the low end the median is 69 I think a
lot of people also on Wall Street would
say you can get a low number but I
wouldn't panic because ultimately the
break even rate is so low right now if
that's the point the NEC director is
trying to make I don't know going into
[music] Wednesday but the headlines
certainly unhelpful if you're trying to
put together an estimate based on the
data we've seen so far I think you've
got to sort of like you know revise it
down lower just a [music] little bit
after those comments
>> it's a Great point. The market hasn't
been freaking out even when we've gotten
a lower number because there is this
nuance. So again, a curious comment that
I'm sure will be dissected. We'll see a
lot of notes, I'm sure, with very clever
headlines that come out in the next
couple of day days and I'm I'm looking
forward to them. Please send them my
way.
>> The Southside will do their bit. No
doubt. One hour away from [music] the
open and bal equity futures on the S&P
down by a tenth of 1% with your morning
movers. Danny has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Tech might be underperforming
this morning, but here is one bright
spot for it. STM Micro or SD Micro
rather uh reached an agreement with
Amazon. They'll be supplying the
semiconductors for Amazon Web Services
for their cloud uh pro providing and we
know Amazon has a lot of capex [music]
to burn. STM had been seen behind on the
race for AI uh infrastructure. So this
kind of gives them a little bit of a
boost forward. Amazon also gets uh to
buy warrants which allowed them STM
stock over the next seven years.
Elsewhere, some pharma news starting
with the drama that has been hims and
hers. First, they unleash a pill, a we
go copy pill for less than $50. Nova
Nordis sues them. The FDA says, "Stop
making that." And over the weekend, they
say, "We are going to stop making that."
So, shares down 21.6%. [music]
Novo up 4.8%. Finally, some other pharma
news. This one, a deal. Eli Lily
agreeing to buy Orna Pharmaceuticals, a
multi-billion dollar deal that will give
it access [music] to autoimmune disease
treatments. And it just shows that Lily
is trying to widen its portfolio beyond
just obesity medication. Those shares up
more than 2%. John
>> Danny, did Matthew Miller make it into
work this morning? [laughter]
>> He did. Why? Why? Why were you worried?
Was Did something go wrong?
>> Super Bowl weekend. You never know.
>> I see. Well, he is going to be speaking
with Lauren Stroll of F1. So, that sport
reigning supreme for him. So, he made
sure to get in.
>> Now, we know when Matt's here. All
right, Danny. Thank you. You never know
with Miller, do you?
>> He definitely seems like a guy who's
having a Super Bowl Ranger at his house.
>> No doubt. No doubt about [music] it.
Matt Miller, Danny Burgerer coming up in
about 30 minutes time. Let's turn to the
economy. A key week of data on deck
headlined by payrolls and CPI data.
Ender Curran joins us now for more.
Ender, I've got to ask you, did Kevin
Hassid just drop a hint, a big hint
going into Wednesday?
>> Look, it's very unusual comments coming
so close to the official release of of
jobs data John, as you mentioning
earlier in your show. And the other part
of course is the fact that before the
last jobs release, the president on his
social media account did release a
partial uh pre-release of some of that
jobs number. So obviously these kind of
comments will still questions around was
this a signal of what's coming down the
pipes or not. We just don't know until
he clarifies it. But either way, um the
monthly jobs data are supposed to hold
up okay. They're meant to come in around
69,000 according to the economist
survey. Unemployment holding around
4.4%. that's meant to have leaned into
the idea of a stabilizing jobs market.
But maybe and this is perhaps what Mr.
Hass is speaking to. We do also get the
annual revisions on Wednesday and
they're expected to show fairly hefty
downward revisions for the previous
year, the year to March 2025. Uh maybe
650,000 less jobs created according to
Bloomberg economics. Now, if that
happens, then we get a headline that the
jobs market really was much weaker than
people thought it was. Um but again, we
don't know. We'll have to hear more
clarity from the White House in terms of
what they're speaking about, but
certainly this will stoke speculation
about whether it was or was not a
signal.
>> So, Ender, it just raised the question,
what is and what isn't good right now in
the jobs market. Is 20K okay? Is 10
okay? Is zero break even? I've got no
idea. Ender, this is what Governor
Waller thinks and his opinion on the
matter is far more important than mine
because he sets policy at the monetary
at the monetary policy level with the
Federal Reserve. He said this in a
recent statement. last year's data will
be revised downward soon to likely show
that there will virtually be no growth
in payroll employment in 2025. Zero zip
natada. And he went on to say that all
of this suggests that a substantial
deterioration in the labor market is a
significant risk and what is good, what
is bad, and where is break even right
now in this economy?
>> Well, break even is certainly a very
academic exercise right now, John. As
you know, very different estimates
because of the impact of the immigration
crackdown and the like. So hard to get a
precise number on that. But Governor
Waller of course, yes, he was in the
race to be the Fed chair. That's
probably part of the story here. But
Governor Waller of course has been very
strong in the labor market. He's made
early calls ahead of others on the FOMC
policy committee about where things were
going. He was early in calling for cuts
last year, for example. So, you know,
when he speaks in the labor market, he
will will be listened to. But we know
the backstory is that for all the mood
music and for all the narrative that we
still don't see much evidence of
broad-based mass layoff. So there's a
there's an argument out there that we're
still in this low hire lowfire
environment. The Fed last month talking
about signs of stabilization in the jobs
market. That was a little bit of a
change of tune from them. And as I
mentioned earlier, the jobs data on
Wednesday is meant to show that things
are holding up okay. Now, of course, if
we see a much weaker jobs number on
Wednesday, that might again reignite the
idea that hold on a second, we're now
starting to see catch-up. You know,
labor market being a lag. Maybe it is
softer than people thought. So, we
really need to see what these numbers on
Wednesday tell us to give us an update
on where things are at.
>> Enda, thanks for the coverage down in
Washington and the current there of
Bloomberg. Let's stay on the data. Luke
Tilly of Wilmington Trust writing the US
labor market is in an extremely weakened
condition. We are officially projecting
a 60,000 gain in private payrolls and
the unemployment rate to tick up to
4.5%. Luke joins us now for more. Luke,
welcome back. I feel like I've been
asking this question for the best part
of 12 months now. What is a good number
on Wednesday? What does that look like
these days?
>> Well, it's obviously a lot lower because
of the low labor force growth that we
have, but I don't spend a lot of time
thinking about what a quote break even
number is. uh because you could
construct a mathematical example where
you had negative job growth and negative
labor force. You know, the unemployment
rate could mathematically hold stable,
but you would get much weaker spending
and you would get much weaker economic
performance. So I really think that that
that break even concept is uh just sort
of an academic one like Enda just said
we're expecting pretty low growth and
what we've really been noticing and
focused on is the fact that the private
sector has shed almost 150,000 jobs when
you remove the healthcare sector and the
healthcare sector is important but it's
also not sensitive to the cycle at all.
It was adding jobs um through the g
global financial crisis. So we've seen
that job loss and that really points to
uh a lot of reticence on the and a lot
of reluctance for private firms and the
private sectors to be hiring. Uh and
that's going to that's going to weigh on
growth. We think
>> this is important. Luke, you're
emphasizing the demand side of the
employment picture. The fact that a lot
of employers are really holding off on
their hiring plans. Kevin has it uh the
economic adviser to President Trump in
his comments was talking about how we
should expect a lower jobs number. He
was referring to productivity. He was
referring to less immigration. He was
saying that that was the reason that we
should maybe expect just a little bit
less of a robust number. Do you think
that that's a huge part of the picture?
>> Yeah, I haven't seen his full statement
yet. Obviously, as Enda said, it's a
little bit unusual for uh somebody to
frontr run uh the report like that if if
in fact that's what he's done. I am a
little surprised that he introduced the
word panic on his own uh to talk about
the jobs report. So perhaps that that
weighs on the expectations a little bit.
We see this as mostly a demand side
phenomenon. Yes, there's going to be
slower job growth because of low
immigration. Yes, we are losing some
labor demand on the on because of the
impacts of artificial intelligence. But
if you look through all of the company
commentary, whether it's the ISM
manufacturing number, which was very
strong, but look through the comments, a
lot of discussion of weak demand and
just sort of holding the line on hiring,
not replacing people. uh the Richmond
Fed's survey of CFOs, large and small
companies, the National Federation of
Independent Business, all pointing to
trade tariffs, uncertainty about overall
demand as the driver and their concern.
So, we mostly see it as a demand side
phenomenon, even though there are
definitely supply factors at work, too.
>> I just want to veer a little bit to the
far uh scan. I don't want to say left or
right because it might be viewed as
political, but I'm just curious going
forward how you view some of these types
of statements that could be forward
tells or that couldn't be forward tells
or statements about investments in
certain areas or uh some of the
strategic reserves that we could get say
in metals. I mean, how do you view some
of the uh political discourse when
making certain investments? Do you take
this as sort of gospel? Do you ignore
the noise?
Well, in our investment committee, we
really focus on a 9 or 12 month horizon
going forward. So, we're looking at
where the economy is going to go. And we
are pretty optimistic about long-term
growth in the US when you get out the 12
months and 24 months. What we're trying
to figure out right now is how big this
short-term impact is because companies
are adjusting to the uh the significant
hike in tariffs and also trying to
digest and make those decisions about
long-term capex plans. Yes, we do think
that there is going to be reshoring of
manufacturing activity, not so much
jobs, but manufacturing activity, but
that does take a long time. So, the real
question here is are we going to have uh
larger short-term pain in terms of these
uh companies not hiring as much before
you get that long-term gain. Uh and we
think that it is a little bit on the
risky side. You know, uh we expect the
unemployment rate to rise to 4.8% by the
middle of the year. Uh so that's going
to be challenging as we look forward.
But this is fundamentally an adjustment.
It's not a bearish view or that we think
that there's something fundamentally
wrong with the economy. We're in a in a
a rapid adjustment period and uh
companies have to make some pretty tough
decisions. So long-term positive, but uh
shortterm uh short-term there could be
some weakness.
>> Luke, as you know, Wednesday's release
is important because we'll get the
annual revisions, the job count. What
are you expecting on that front for 2025
revisions?
Yeah, we had the uh the preliminary look
at that last year with something like
900,000. This will be a more solid count
of of the uh the revisions. This um and
we don't have our own official number,
but it is really clear to us that the
Bureau of Labor Statistics is having a
very hard time pegging the birth death
model and trying to figure out how many
firms were created, how many firms went
away. Uh we know that Chair Pal has said
that the FOMC is operating on the
assumption that the BLS is overstating
job growth by as much as 60,000 jobs per
month. So we'll get a little bit more
information about that on Wednesday, of
course, as you said. And uh it just it
just points to the fact that we need to
be very careful about every single jobs
release that comes out. We have to look
and see if there are downward revisions
for November and December, for example.
Uh so it just makes it a little bit more
challenging to read into each jobs
report and we will get that update but
uh we're a little bit more focused on
the look ahead.
>> Hey Luc, it's good to see you. Thanks
for sharing your thoughts. Luke Tilly
there of Wilmington Trust on the labor
market and the general US economy.
Getting the fuller transcript now from
the NEC director Kevin Hasset engaging
with the American press a little bit
earlier on this morning saying the break
even job number is quite a bit lower
than it was under Biden when there were
people you know basically coming across
the border willy-nilly. Direct quote not
mine. And so I think that you should
expect slightly smaller job numbers that
are consistent with high GDP growth
right now and that one shouldn't panic
if you see a sequence of numbers that
are lower than you're used to because
again population growth is going down
and productivity growth is rocketing.
It's an unusual set of circumstances. So
that is the context which I think is
really important to his fuller comments
which is this has to do with immigration
coming down that lowers the overall
number of population growth and two it's
productivity and the productivity boom
is going to continue to power the
economy and this also is going to have a
uh negative effect necessarily on the
overall jobs growth in the near term. So
that is what he is talking about. It is
being interpreted by markets as being a
tell on what we might get on Wednesday.
It could easily be inferred also though
as really describing his overall
picture. Nonetheless, it does uh it does
come at a sort of interesting moment in
the week.
>> If you're wondering what the follow-up
question was to that particular
statement, it was on the government
shutdown and there wasn't really a
follow-up question. So, that's
disappointing. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara
with more. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. Just recapping those comments
by NEC Director Kevin Hasset. [music] He
warned we could see slightly lower than
expected jobs numbers this [music] week
and that the weaker data should not
trigger a panic. Hasset citing a slower
pace of population growth. Uh [music] as
for the market reaction, you are seeing
two-year yields moving slightly lower.
US payrolls were delayed last week due
to the brief partial government shutdown
and are set to be released on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson suggesting [music] the Senate
should start hearings on Kevin Worsh's
Fed chair nomination. This despite GOP
[music] push back to block the
nomination until the criminal
investigation against current Fed chair
Jay Powell is resolved. Besson's pushing
to get the hearings underway and quote
see where the investigation [music]
goes. And we're seeing Alpha Bear shares
edging lower after the tech giants
announced a sevenpart dollar bond sale.
It's the latest in what's been a
borrowing spree by companies at the
forefront of the AI investment boom,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg.
Alphabets [music] is also offering debts
in pound sterling and Swiss Frank
denominated bonds. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> hey, thank you. Thanks for this morning.
Up next, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with Osen
Quan of Wells Fargo remaining cautious
on the hyperscalers. That conversation
up [music] next.
>> [music]
>> We were in a period where that that
[music] earnings recovery kept getting
pushed out. If we get continue to get
data like the ISM we got we just got
that helps cement investors [music]
confidence in this earnings recovery and
more cyclical recovery and the fact that
corporate guidance has actually been
pretty supportive you know I think gives
us and can give investors a little bit
more confidence this time around.
>> That was Joe Carrie Hall of Bank of
America a little bit earlier on this
morning. If you're just joining us good
morning counting you down to the opening
bell about 41 minutes away. Equity
futures negative by let's call it 210 of
1% down by 26 [music] on the NASDAQ 100.
As we count you down your trading diary
set up as follows. Big calendar full
[music] of data. Today you'll also get
some Fed Speak Waller Bostic Myin and
Focus. Tomorrow retail sales plus
earnings from Coca-Cola [music] and
Ford. Wednesday the main event on the
data side payrolls Wednesday. Thursday
another round of claims and on Friday
CPI data. [music]
Let's turn back to the markets. Osen
Quan of Welsh Fargo writing, "We
continue to expect the capex cycle to be
much bigger and much longer than
expected. We remain cautious on the
hyperscalers. Osung joins us now for
more." As good to see you.
>> Been a mixed earning season for the
hyperscalers. Some stocks getting
rewarded, others being punished. I'm
thinking of Microsoft down by 10%.
You're expecting to see more of the same
in the year ahead.
>> Yeah, I mean that's been the case for
the past three quarters or so. Uh for
the hyperscalers, it's really a stock
pickers group, right? It's about who's
going to win this race and who's going
to lose this race. Um, as a macro
person, that's not a very attractive
group to us. Uh, we we very much own the
semis and the AI infrastructure side of
things
>> where the money's going.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, the market hates
companies that are in an investment
cycle, which are basically hyperscalers.
They're return on incremental invested
capital. That's actually similar to the
rest of the index. They're a lot more
asset heavy than the rest of the index
now. Um and I think the capex cycle is
likely to continue for the first for a
very long time.
>> So cautious on the hyperscalers quote
very long time lots of spending. Go to
where the beneficiaries are the chip
players. Now we have to talk about what
got hammered last week.
>> Where's software fit in with all of
that?
>> Yeah, I mean software is interesting. So
for what it's worth, our newly launched
systematic sector strategy is ranking
software as number one. Um and that's a
that's a very short-term trading model.
Uh but sentiment is atrocious. It's at
an all-time low. Um fundamentals are
actually pretty good. So in Q4, software
companies posted 25% EPS growth
year-over-year, which was the strongest
growth rate in two and a half years.
They beat consensus by 5%. So it wasn't
anything to do with earnings. It wasn't
anything do do with fundamentals today.
It's really sentiment overhang that they
are going to get disrupted and the
market basically decided that everyone's
going to get disrupted by AI. There are
going to be some winners. they're all
going to be like, you know,
infrastructure software companies,
consumption model software companies
that are actually going to benefit from
this. So the market just market just
shot first and is going to ask questions
later and I think this is time to do
some analysis, deep dive analysis on
which stocks are actually going to do
and do better and not be disrupted.
There's a broader question about whether
you could see this rotation away from
some of the hyperscalers, you know,
putting software aside and whether you
can see the overall index continue to
grind higher and we have seen that in
part because of this expectation of
growth. Do you see this as something
that is sustainable or do you think that
this is like 2000 the way that Jim Reed
of Deutsche Bank laid out where you're
going to see six months of equalization
and then a huge downdraft where everyone
gets caught up in the same?
>> Yeah, I don't think we're there yet. I
don't think it's a bubble. I mean,
NASDAQ's entire performance
outperformance since the end of tech
bubble has been driven by better
fundamentals than the S&P 500. I think
what we're trying what we're starting to
see is more of a rotation out of those
tech and everything tech is going to be
winners of AI to now you got to you got
to be more selective. Also, I think
we're in a reflation cycle, meaning all
these cyclical companies are going to
start to benefit from the PMI up cycle
uh that we think we're in. We're in a
restocking cycle. So back in January, we
saw the sharpest rebuild in inventories
in three years. So after three years of
detocking, I think we're finally in a
restocking cycle. And I think the best
way to play that is through commodities.
I mean I mean I I think that's why
energy stocks are higher, material
stocks are higher. Um for different
reasons. I still like gold as well. Uh
so I think I think commodity prices are
going to continue to grind higher and
you know to do that to to play that I
think you own cyclicals and small caps.
Well, it's just I keep going back to
this question of what kind of cycle are
we in where we get to 7,800 at the end
of this year, which is your forecast for
the S&P 500. Can we do it without the
big drivers of this that account for
market capitalizations equal to the
spending of a variety of different
governments in one year? I mean, it just
raises a question how we get there,
especially if all this stuff costs money
and people don't like it when it costs
money and they got to pay for it.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think semis are going to
do well. Uh, we still like semis. I mean
this, like I said, I think the AI capex
cycle is going to be much bigger than
and much uh longer than what a lot of
people expect.
>> You've said that a few times now. How
much bigger? How much longer? What kind
of numbers are you thinking about? 650
is a big number to me. How much bigger?
How much longer?
>> I mean, every quarter since 2024, there
was a step up increase in AI capex
consensus numbers. And we saw the same
thing this this quarter, too. I think we
we see that as long as these companies
are in this AI arms race which I think
are in um they continue to raise cap uh
raise debt. I mean we saw the the
Alphabet uh bond is insurance today too.
In Q4 alone they the big four issued
$150 billion in b of bonds. So and and
they're going to spend it and I think we
are still in like the middle innings of
the AI capex cycle and I think we we
much higher. But to your point, we're
already at the point where there are
some market constraints, a bit of push
back.
>> Now, what kind of numbers are you
thinking about where we get to the point
where actually the push back is so
vicious they have to stop.
>> How much further can they go is what
we're asking.
>> The the market was pushing back back in
2024 as well. This isn't the first time
that the market started pushing back
yet. Companies still, you know, are
investing in capex. So this is really an
arms and and the biggest reason why
they're investing is not it's it's more
because they don't want to be disrupted
than to make money at least for now and
as long as they they they have that
disruption risk it's it's an existential
risk that they're seeing so they kind of
have to invest good to see you lots to
think about Kwand there of Wells Fargo
going back to that quote a few summers
ago from the Alphabet CEO that it was a
much bigger risk to underinvest than
overinvest and that We're seeing
evidence of that with the latest
numbers.
>> Yeah. And Osang was talking about how
much the numbers have exponentially
increased year-over-year. 80 90 100%
year-over-year increase. What's the
limit to that? Ultimately, we will get
tested time and time again. Alphabet
with their $15 billion offering later
today.
>> 650 isn't big enough apparently, and
that's a pretty big number. I'll be
interested to see how big that number is
at the end of the year. Bigger according
to OS. Might be a lot bigger. Coming up
tomorrow, Francis Donald of RBC, Eric
Johnson of Canford Jared, Mike Pile of
Black Rockck, Michael Canowitz of Piper
Sandler [music] from New York City. Have
a wonderful week. Looking forward to
covering it with you. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]